







The Romance of Lust (1873)


A classic Victorian erotic novel



by Anonymous




1892 edition





VOLUME I.

CONTENTS

The Novice--Mrs. Benson--Mary--Mrs. Benson's Correspondence with Mrs.
Egerton--Miss Evelyn--Eliza

There were three of us--Mary, Eliza, and myself. I was approaching
fifteen, Mary was about a year younger, and Eliza between twelve and
thirteen years of age. Mamma treated us all as children, and was blind
to the fact that I was no longer what I had been. Although not tall for
my age, nor outwardly presenting a manly appearance, my passions were
awakening, and the distinctive feature of my sex, although in repose it
looked magnificent enough, was very sufficiently developed when under
the influence of feminine excitement.

As yet, I had absolutely no knowledge of the uses of the different
organs of sex. My sisters and I all slept in the same room. They
together in one bed, I alone in another. When no one was present, we
had often mutually examined the different formations of our sexes.

We had discovered that mutual handlings gave a certain amount of
pleasing sensation; and, latterly, my eldest sister had discovered that
the hooding and unhooding of my doodle, as she called it, instantly
caused it to swell up and stiffen as hard as a piece of wood. My
feeling of her little pinky slit gave rise in her to nice sensations,
but on the slightest attempt to insert even my finger, the pain was too
great. We had made so little progress in the _attouchements_ that not
the slightest inkling of what could be done in that way dawned upon us.
I had begun to develope a slight growth of moss-like curls round the
root of my cock; and then, to our surprise, Mary began to show a
similar tendency. As yet, Eliza was as bald as her hand, but both were
prettily formed, with wonderfully full and fat mounts of Venus. We were
perfectly innocent of guile and quite habituated to let each other look
at all our naked bodies without the slightest hesitation; and when
playing in the garden, if one wanted to relieve the pressure on the
bladder, we all squatted down together, and crossed waters, each trying
who could piddle fastest. Notwithstanding these symptoms of passion
when excited, in a state of calm I might have passed for a boy of ten
or eleven.

My father had left us but moderately provided for, and mamma, wishing
to live comfortably, preferred giving me lessons along with my sisters
at home to sending me to school; but her health beginning to fail, she
inserted an advertisement in the _Times_ for a governess. Out of a
large number of applicants, a young lady, of the name of Evelyn, was
selected. Some ten days afterwards she arrived, and became one of the
family.

We did not see much of her the first evening, but after breakfast the
following morning, mamma accompanied her to what was considered our
school-room, and said, "Now, my dears, I place you under Miss Evelyn's
care; you must obey her in all things; she will teach you your lessons,
as I am unable to do so any longer." Then, turning to our new
governess, "I fear you will find them somewhat spoiled, and unruly; but
there is a horse, and Susan will make you excellent birch rods whenever
you require them. If you spare their bottoms when they deserve
whipping, you will seriously offend me." As mamma said this, I observed
Miss Evelyn's eyes appeared to dilate with a sort of joy, and I felt
certain that, severely as mamma had often whipped us, if we should now
deserve it, Miss Evelyn would administer it much more severely. She
looked amiability itself, and was truly beautiful in face and person,
twenty-two years of age, full and finely formed, and dressed always
with the most studied neatness. She was, in truth, a seductive
creature. She made an instantaneous impression on my senses. There was,
however, somewhat of a sternness of expression, and a dignity of
carriage, which caused at once to fear and respect her. Of course, at
first, all went smoothly enough, and seeing that mamma treated me
precisely as she did my sisters, I came to be regarded as quite a child
by Miss Evelyn. She found that she had to sleep in the same room with
my sisters and myself. I fancied that on the first night Miss Evelyn
did not approve of this arrangement, but gradually became familiarized
with it, and seemed to think no more about it.

When bedtime came, we all kissed mamma and retired early, as usual.
Miss Evelyn followed some hours later. When she came in, she carefully
locked the door, then looked at me to see if I was asleep. Why, I know
not, but I was instinctively prompted to feign sleep. I did so
successfully, notwithstanding the passing of the candle before my eyes.
So she at once commenced undressing. When her back was turned, I opened
my eyes, and greedily devoured her naked charms as they were gradually
exhibited before me. The moment she turned round, I was again as if
asleep. I have said that my passions had begun to develope themselves,
but as yet I did not understand their force or direction. I well
remember this first night, when a fine ripe woman gradually removed
every particle of dress within a couple of yards of me--the effect of
each succeeding charm, from her lovely and beautifully formed bubbies
to the taking off her shoes and stockings from her well-formed legs and
small feet and ankles, caused my prick to swell and stiffen to a
painful extent. When all but her chemise was removed, she stopped to
pick up her petticoats that she had allowed to fall to her feet, and in
lifting them, raised also her chemise, and exposed to my view a most
glorious bottom--dazzlingly white and shining like satin. As the light
was full upon it, and she was still in a stooping position, I could see
that below her slit she was well covered with dark hair. Turning round,
to put her petticoats on a chair, and to take up her night-gown, she
slipped her chemise from her arm, and letting it fall to the ground
while she lifted the night-gown over her head, I had for some seconds a
view of her beautiful belly, thickly covered with dark curly hair over
the mount of Venus. So voluptuous was the sight, I almost shuddered, so
intense was my excitement. She now sat down on the bed to take off her
shoes and stockings. Oh! what beautiful thighs, legs, ankles, and feet
she had!

I am now advanced in life, and have had many handsome and well-formed
women, but I never saw limbs more voluptuously formed.

In a few minutes the light was extinguished, and a rushing rill flowed
into the night vase; very different from the gentle tricklings from
myself and sisters as we often squatted down opposite each other and
crossed water, laughing at the different sources from which they
flowed. My sisters often envied me the power of directing the spurt
where I pleased, so little were we from dreaming of the real intent of
that projecting little instrument.

I heard the charming creature get into bed, and shortly breath hard. As
for me, I could not sleep. I lay awake the greater part of the night,
afraid to be restless, lest I should disturb Miss Evelyn and give her
reason to think I had been observant of her undressing. When at last I
dozed off, it was but to dream of all the charms I has seen.

About a month passed thus. Every night Miss Evelyn became more and more
at her ease, and confident of my mere childishness, often gave me
glorious and lengthened glimpses of her beautifully developed charms:
although it was only about every other night that I could enjoy them,
for, as they always produced sleeplessness afterwards, the following
night nature assured her rights, and I usually slept profoundly when I
would have preferred continued gazing on the charms of my lovely
governess. But, doubtless, those exhausting sleeps helped to throw her
off her guard, and gave me better opportunities than I should otherwise
have had. Once or twice she used the night ware before putting on her
night-gown, and I could see the rosy-lipped opening embosomed in
exquisite dark curls, pouring out its full measure of water; showing a
fine force of nature, and driving me wild with excitement. Yet it is
singular that I never once thought of applying to my fingers for relief
from the painful stiffness that nearly burst my prick asunder.

Whether mamma had observed my very frequent projection of my trousers,
or began to think it better I should not sleep in the same room as Miss
Evelyn, I cannot say, but she had my bed removed into her own. However,
I was so thoroughly treated as a mere boy by every one in the house,
that Miss Evelyn seemed to forget my sex; and there was at all times a
freedom of carriage and an _abandon_ in her attitudes that she
certainly would not have indulged in if she had felt any restraint from
considering herself in the presence of a youth of the age of puberty.

In cold weather I used to sit on a low stool by the fire--Miss Evelyn
was seated in front, I had my lesson book on my knee, and she herself
would place her beautiful feet on the high school fender, with her work
in her lap, while she heard my sisters repeat their lesson, totally
unconscious that for half an hour at a time she was exposing her
beautiful legs and thighs to my ardent gaze; for sitting much below
her, and bending my head as if intent on my lesson, my eyes were below
her raised petticoats. Her close and tight-fitting white stockings
displayed her well-formed legs, for while confined to the house during
our morning lessons she did not wear drawers; so that in the position
she sat in, with her knees higher than her feet on the already high
fender, and her legs somewhat apart to hold her work in her lap more
easily, the whole glorious underswell of both thighs, and the lower
part of her fine large bottom, with the pinky slit quite visible,
nestled in a rich profusion of dark curls, were fully exposed to my
view. The light from the fire glancing under her raised petticoats
tinged the whole with a glow, and set me equally in a blaze of desire
until I was almost ready to faint. I could have rushed headlong under
her petticoats, and kissed and fondled that delicious opening and all
its surroundings. Oh, how little she thought of the passion she was
raising. Oh! dear Miss Evelyn, how I did love you from the dainty kid
slipper and tight glossy silk stocking, up to the glorious swell of the
beautiful bubbies, that were so fully exposed to me nearly every night,
and the lovely lips of all that I longed to lovingly embrace.

Thus day after day passed away, and Miss Evelyn became to me a goddess,
a creature whom, in my heart of hearts, I literally worshiped. When she
left the school-room, and I was alone, I kissed that part of the fender
her feet had pressed, and the seat on which she sat, and even the air
an inch above, imagination placing there her lovely cunt. I craved for
something beyond this without knowing exactly what I wanted; for, as
yet, I really was utterly ignorant of anything appertaining to the
conjunction of the sexes.

One day I had gone up to my sisters' bedroom where the governess slept,
that I might throw myself on her bed, and in imagination embrace her
beautiful body. I heard some one approaching, and knowing that I had no
business there, I hid myself under the bed. The next moment Miss Evelyn
herself entered, and locked the door. It was about an hour before
dinner. Taking off her dress, and hanging it on the wardrobe, she drew
out a piece of furniture, which had been bought for her, the use of
which had often puzzled me; she took off the lid, poured water into its
basin, and placed a sponge near it. She then took off her gown, drew
her petticoats and chemise up to her waist and fastened them there,
straddled across it, and seated herself upon it.

I thus had the intoxicating delight of gazing on all her beautiful
charms, for when she tucked up her clothes she stood before her glass,
presenting to my devouring glance her glorious white bottom in all its
fullness, turning to approach the bidet, she equally exposed her lower
belly and beautiful mount, with all its wealth of hair. While
straddling over the bidet before she sat down, the whole of her
pinky-lipped cunt broke on my enraptured sight. Never shall I forget
the wild excitement of the moment. It was almost too much for my
excited senses; fortunately, when seated, the immediate cause of my
almost madness vanished. She sponged herself well between the thighs
for about five minutes. She then raised herself off the bidet, and for
a moment again displayed the pouting lips of her cunt--then stood
fronting me for two or three minutes while she removed, with the rinsed
sponge, the trickling drops of water which still gathered on the rich
bush of curls around her quim. Thus her belly, mount and thighs, whose
massy-fleshed and most voluptuous shape were more fully seen by me than
they had heretofore been, and it may easily be conceived into what a
state such a deliberate view threw me.

Oh, Miss Evelyn, dear, delicious Miss Evelyn! what would you have
thought had you known that I was gazing on all your angelic charms, and
that my eager eyes had been straining themselves to penetrate the
richness of those charming pouting lips which lay so snugly in that
rich mass of dark curling hair. Oh! how I do long to kiss them; for at
that time I had no other idea of embracing and still less of
penetrating them.

When her ablutions were completed, she sat down and drew off her
stockings, displaying her beautiful white calves and charming little
feet. I believe it was this first admiration of really exquisitely
formed legs, ankles and feet, which were extraordinarily perfect in
make, that first awakened my passion for those objects, which have
since always exercised a peculiar charm over me. She was also so
particularly neat in her shoes--little dark ones--that were _bijoux_ to
look at, I often took them up and kissed them, when left in the room.
Then her silk stockings, always drawn up tight and fitting like a
glove, set off to the greatest advantage the remarkable fine shape of
her legs.

Putting on silk for cotton stockings, she took down a low-bodiced
dress, finished her toilet, and left the room. I crawled out from under
the bed, washed my face and hands in the water of the bidet, and even
drank some in my excitement.

Some six weeks had now elapsed since the arrival of Miss Evelyn. The
passion that had seized me for her had so far kept me most obedient to
her slightest command, or even wish, and, from the same cause,
attentive to my lessons, when not distracted by the circumstances
already detailed. My example had also had the effect of keeping my
sisters much in the same groove, but it was impossible this could last
--it was not nature. As long as all went smoothly, Miss Evelyn seemed
to be all amiability. We fancied we could do as we liked, and we grew
more careless.

Miss Evelyn became more reserved, and cautioned us at first, and then
threatened us with the rod. We did not think she would make use of it.
Mary grew impertinent, and one afternoon turned sulky over her lessons,
and set our teacher at defiance. Miss Evelyn, who had been growing more
and more angry, had her rise from her seat. She obeyed with an impudent
leer. Seizing her by the arm, Miss Evelyn dragged the struggling girl
to the horse. My sister was strong and fought hard, using both teeth
and nails, but it was to no purpose. The anger of our governess was
fully roused, and raising her in her arms, she carried her forcibly to
the horse, placed her on it, held her firmly with one hand while she
put the noose round her with the other, which, when drawn, secured her
body; other nooses secured each ankle to rings in the floor, keeping
her legs apart by the projection of the horse, and also forcing the
knees to bend a little, by which the most complete exposure of the
bottom, and, in fact, of all her private parts too, was obtained.

Miss Evelyn then left her, and went to mamma for a rod. In a few
minutes she returned, evidently flushed with passion, and proceded to
tie Mary's petticoats well up to her waist, leaving her bottom and her
pinky slit quite bare and exposed directly before my eyes. It was quite
two months since I had seen her private parts, and I was well surprised
to observe the lips more pouting and swelled out, as well as the
symptoms of a mossy covering of the mount much more developed. Indeed,
it was in itself more exciting than I had expected, for my thoughts had
so long dwelt only on the riper beauties of Miss Evelyn that I had
quite ceased to have any toying with Mary.

This full view of all her private parts reawakened former sensations
and strengthened them. Miss Evelyn first removed her own scarf, laying
bare her plump ivory shoulders, and showing the upper halves of her
beautiful bubbies, which were heaving with the excitement of her anger.
She bared her fine right arm, and grasping the rod, stepped back and
raised her arm; her eyes glistened in a peculiar way. She was indeed
beautiful to see.

I shall never forget that moment--it was but a moment. The rod whistled
through the air and fell with a cruel cut on poor Mary's plump little
bottom. The flesh quivered again, and Mary, who had resolved not to
cry, flushed in her face, and bit the damask with which the horse was
covered.

Again the arm was raised, and again, with a sharp whistle, it fell on
the palpating buttocks below it. Still her stubborn temper bore her up,
and although we saw how she winced, not a sound escaped her lips.
Drawing back a step, Miss Evelyn again raised her hand and arm, and
this time her aim was so true that the longer points of the rod doubled
between the buttocks and concentrated themselves between the lips of
Mary's privates. So agonising was the pain that she screamed out
dreadfully. Again the rod fell precisely on the same spot.

"Oh! oh! oh! Dear Miss Evelyn. I will never, no, never, do so again."

Her shrieks were of no avail. Cut succeeded cut, yell succeeded yell
--until the rod was worn to a stump, and poor Mary's bottom was one
mass of weals and red as raw beef. It was fearful to see, and yet such
is our nature that to see it was, at the same time, exciting. I could
not keep my eyes from her pouting quim, the swelling lips of which,
under the severity of the punishment it was undergoing, not only seemed
to thicken, but actually opened and shut, and evidently throbbed with
agony. But all this was highly exciting for me to witness. I then and
there resolved to have a closer inspection at a more convenient
opportunity, which did not fail me in the end.

Meanwhile, her spirit was completely cowed, or rather, crushed. Indeed,
we were all fully frightened, and now knew what we had to expect, if we
did not behave ourselves. There was now no fear of any manifestation of
temper, and we felt we must indeed obey implicitly whatever our
governess chose to order. We instinctively learned to fear her.

A very few days after this memorable whipping, some visitors arrived
--a gentleman and lady. The gentleman was an old friend of mamma's, who
had lately married, and mamma had asked them to visit her on their
wedding tour and spent a short time with us.

The gentleman was a fine-looking man, tall and powerfully built; the
lady rather delicate looking, but well shaped, with good breasts and
shoulders, small waist, and spreading haunches, well-formed arms, small
hands and feet, and very brilliant eyes.

I think it was about three days after their arrival that one afternoon
I went into the spare room, which was occupied by these visitors; while
there, I heard them coming upstairs. The lady entered first, and I had
just time to slip into a closet and draw the door to; it was not quite
closed, but nearly so. In a minute the gentleman followed, and gently
shutting the door, locked it. Mrs. Benson smiled, and said--

"Well, my love, you are a sad teaser; you let me have no rest. Surely,
you had enough last night and this morning without wanting it again so
soon?"

"Indeed, I had not," he said, "I never can have enough of your
delicious person. So come, we must not be long about it, or our absence
will be observed."

He seized her round the waist, and drew her lips to his, and gave her a
long, long kiss; squeezing her to him, and moving himself against her.
Then seating himself, he pulled her on his knee, and thrust his hand up
her petticoats, their mouths being glued together for some time.

"We must be quick, dear," she murmured.

He got up, and lifted her on the edge of the bed, threw her back, and
taking her legs under his arms, exposed everything to my view. She had
not so much hair on her mount of Venus as Miss Evelyn, but her slit
showed more pouting lips, and appeared more open. Judge of my
excitement when I saw Mr. Benson unbutton his trousers and pull out an
immense cock. Oh, dear, how large it looked; it almost frightened me.
With his fingers he placed the head between the lips of Mrs. Benson's
sheath, and then letting go his hold, and placing both arms so as to
support her legs, he pushed it all right into her to the hilt at once.
I was thunderstruck that Mrs. Benson did not shriek with agony, it did
seem such a large thing to thrust right into her belly. However, far
from screaming with pain, she appeared to enjoy it. Her eyes glistened,
her face flushed, and she smiled most graciously on Mr. B. The two
appeared very happy. His large cock slipped in and out quite smoothly,
and his hands pressed the large glossy buttocks and pulled them to him
at each home thrust. This lasted nearly five minutes, when all at once
Mr. B. stopped short, and then followed one or two convulsive
shoves--he grinning in a very absurd way at her. He remained quiet for
a few minutes, and the drew out his cock, all soft, with slimy drops
falling from it onto the carpet. Taking a towel, he wiped up the
carpet, and wrapping it round his cock, went to the basin and washed it.

Mrs. Benson lay for a few minutes longer all exposed, her quim more
open than before, and I could see a white slime oozing from it.

You can hardly imagine the wild excitement this scene occasioned me.
First, the grand mystery was at once explained to me, and my ignorant
longings now knew to what they tended. After giving me plenty of time
to realise all the beauties of her private parts, she slipped down on
the floor, adjusted her petticoats, and smoothed the disordered
counterpane, and then went to the glass to arrange her hair. This done,
she quietly unlocked the door, and Mr. Benson went out. The door was
then relocked, and Mrs. B. went to the basin, emptied and filled it,
then raised up her petticoats, and bathed the parts between her legs
with a sponge, and then rubbed all dry with a towel; all this time
exposing everything to my ardent gaze. But, horror of horrors! she
after this came straight to the closet and gave a slight scream on
discovering me there. I blushed up to the ears, and tried to stammer
out an excuse. She stared at me at first in silent amasement; but at
last said--

"How came you here, sir, tell me?"

"I was here when you came up; I wanted my football, which was in this
closet, and when I heard you coming, I hid myself, I don't know why."

For some minutes she seemed to consider and examine me attentively. She
then said--

"Can you be discreet?"

"Oh, yes, ma'am."

"You will never tell any one what you have seen?"

"No ma'am."

"Well, keep this promise, and I shall try what I can do to reward you.
Now, go downstairs."

I went to the school-room, but I was greatly agitated, I scarcely knew
what I was doing. The scene I had witnessed had complete possession of
my thoughts. In years but a boy, the mystery now practically explained
to me had awakened all the passions of a man. Instead of studying my
lessons, my thoughts wandered to Mrs. B., thrown back on the bed with
her fine legs and thighs fully exposed; above all, the sight of the
pinky gash, with its fleecy hair at the bottom of her belly, which I
had seen for some minutes all open and oozing out the slimy juice that
followed the amorous encounter they had been indulging in. It seemed so
much more developed than Miss Evelyn's. I felt sure that Miss Evelyn
could never take in such a thick long thing as Mr. B. had thrust into
his wife, and yet it appeared to go in so easily, and moved about so
smoothly, and so evidently to the satisfaction and utmost delight of
both, as was proved by their ardent embracings, fond murmurs, and
voluptuous movements, especially just before they both ceased together
all movement whatever.

Then I thought, how delicious it would be to treat Miss Evelyn in the
same way, and to revel with my stiff-standing prick in her delicious
quim, which in my mind's eye I saw before me as I had viewed in on her
rising from the bidet, when I lay hid under the bed. Then I thought of
my sister Mary's smaller, although attractive little quim, and I
resolved, as that was the easiest to get hold of, to initiate her in
all the newly discovered mysteries. I fully determined that my own
first lesson, as well as hers, should be taken on her little fat chubby
cunt. Then the recollection of its pouting and throbbing lips under the
fearful flagellation she had undergone, began to excite me, and made my
cock stand stiff and throb again. All the weeks of excitement I had now
constantly been under had produced a wonderful effect on my pego, which
had become considerably more developed when in a state of erection. As
you may suppose, with such distracting thoughts, I did not get on with
my lessons. Miss Evelyn, for some reason or other, was out of humour
that morning, and more than once spoke crossly to me for my evident
inattention. At length she called me to her, and finding that I had
scarcely done anything, she said--

"Now, Charles, I give you ten minutes longer to finish that sum, if not
done in that time I shall whip you; you are exhibiting the mere spirit
of idleness. I do not know what has come over you, but if persisted in,
you shall certainly be punished."

The idea of the beautiful Miss Evelyn whipping my bare bottom did not
tend to calm my excitement, on the contrary, it turned my lewd thoughts
upon the beauties of her person, which I had so often furtively gazed
upon.

It was close upon four o'clock, at which hour we always broke up for a
run in the garden for an hour, and during this period I had resolved to
begin instructing Mary in the secret mysteries I had so lately been a
witness to. But fate had ordered it otherwise, and I was to receive my
first practical lesson and be initiated on the person of a riper and
more beautiful woman; but of this hereafter. At four o'clock I had done
nothing with my task--Miss Evelyn looked grave:

"Mary and Eliza, you may go out, Charles will remain here."

My sisters, simply imagining that I was kept to finish my lessons, ran
into the garden. Miss Evelyn turned the key in the door, opened a
cupboard, and withdrew a birch rod neatly tied up with blue ribbons.
Now my blood coursed through my veins, and my fingers trembled so that
I could hardly hold my pencil.

"Put down your slate, Charles, and come to me."

I obeyed, and stood before my beautiful governess, with a strange
commixture of fear and desire.

"Unfasten your braces, and pull down your trousers."

I commenced doing this, though but very slowly. Angry at my delay her
delicate fingers speedily accomplished the work. My trousers fell to my
feet.

"Place yourself across my knees."

Tremblingly, with the same commixture of feeling, I obeyed. Her silk
dress was drawn up to prevent its being creased--my naked flesh pressed
against her snowy white petticoats. A delicate perfume of violet and
vervain assailed my nerves. As I felt her soft and delicate fingers
drawing up my shirt, and passing over my bare posteriors, while the
warmth of her pulpy form beneath me penetrated my flesh, nature exerted
her power, and my prick began to swell out to a most painful extent. I
had but little time, however, to notice this before a rapid succession
of the most cruel cuts lacerated my bottom.

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear! Oh, dear! Oh, Miss Evelyn. I will do the sum if
you will only forgive me. Oh, oh, oh, &c."

Holding me firmly with her left arm, Miss Evelyn used the rod most
unmercifully. At first, the pain was excruciating, and I roared out as
loud as I could, but gradually the pain ceased to be so acute, and was
succeeded by the most delicious tickling sensation. My struggles at
first had been so violent as to greatly disorder Miss Evelyn's
petticoats, and to raise them up so as to expose to my delighted eyes
her beautifully formed silk-clad legs up to the knees, and even an inch
or two of naked thigh above.

This, together with the intense tickling irritation communicated to my
bottom, as well as to the friction of my cock against the person of
Miss Evelyn in my struggles, rendered me almost delirious, and I tossed
and pushed myself about on her knees in a state of perfect frenzy as
the blows continued to be showered down upon my poor bottom. At last
the rod was worn to a stump, and I was pushed off her knees. As I rose
before her, with my cheeks streaming with tears, my shirt was jutting
out considerably in front in an unmistakeable and most prominent
manner, and my prick was at the same time throbbing beneath it with
convulsive jerks, which I could by no means restrain.

Miss Evelyn glared at the projection in marked astonishment, and her
open eyes were fixed upon it as I stood rubbing my bottom and crying,
without attempting to move or button up my trousers. She continued for
a minute or two to stare at the object of attraction, flushing scarlet
up to the forehead, and then she suddenly seemed to recollect herself,
drew a heavy breath, and rapidly left room. She did not return until
after my sisters came back from the garden, and seemed still confused,
and avoided fixing her eye upon me.

In two days afterwards, all disagreeable marks of this very severe
whipping had disappeared. On the following day we were invited to pass
the afternoon at the grange, a beautiful place about two miles from us.
The afternoon was fine and warm; we walked there, and arrived about
four o'clock. Mr. and Mrs. Robinson were in the drawing-room, but at
once desired us to go in the garden and amuse ourselves with their
three daughters, whom we would find there. We went at once, and found
them amusing themselves on a swing. Sophia, the eldest, about nineteen,
was swinging a sister about two years younger, a very fine, fully
developed young woman. Indeed, all three sisters were finer women and
more beautiful than the average of young ladies.

Another sister, Agnes, was not seated, but standing on the board
between the ropes. Sophia was making both mount as high as possible.
They were laughing loudly, when we found them, at the exposure each
made--one in advancing, the other retiring. Agnes's light dress of
muslin and single petticoat, as she retired and the wind came up from
behind, was bulged out in front, and exposed her limbs up to her belly,
so that one could see that her mount was already well furnished. The
other, in advancing, threw her legs up, and exposed all the underside
of her thighs and a part of her bottom, and you could just discern that
there was dark hair between the lower thighs and bottom.

As they considered me but a child, I was no check to their mirth and
sport. On the contrary, the gave me a long rope to pull down the swing
when at its highest, and I sat down on the grass in front for greater
convenience. The fine limbs and hairy quims exposed freely before me
from moment to moment excited my passions. None of them wore more than
one petticoat, and they had no drawers, so that when they mounted to
the highest point from me, I had the fullest possible view of all. My
cock soon rose to a painful extent, which I really believe was noticed
and enjoyed by them, I observed, too, that I was an object of attention
to Miss Evelyn, who shortly seated herself in the swing, and allowed me
to swing her with the end of the rope. I even fancied that she threw up
her legs more than was at all necessary; at all events, she naturally,
with the strong feelings I had towards her, excited me more than all
the rest.

We were as merry as could be, and we passed a delightful evening until
eight o'clock, when it began to rain. As it continued, and became very
heavy, Mr. Robinson ordered out the closed carriage to take us home. It
was a brougham, only seated for two. Mary took Eliza on her knee, Miss
Evelyn took me upon hers. I know not how it happened, but her lovely
arm soom passed round my body as if to hold me on her knee, and her
hand fell, apparently by accident, exactly on my cock--the touch was
electric. In an instant, my member stood stiff and strong beneath her
hand. Still Miss Evelyn, who must have felt the movement going on
beneath her fingers, did not remove her hand, but rather seemed to
press more upon it. In my boyish ignorance, I imagined she was not
aware of what was happening. The motion and jolting of the carriage
over rough road caused her hand to rub up and down upon my erected and
throbbing member. I was almost beside myself, and to conceal my
condition I feigned sleep. I let my head fall on Miss Evelyn's shoulder
and neck--she allowed this.

Whether she thought I had really fallen asleep I know not, but I was
quite sensible that her fingers pressed my swollen and throbbing cock,
and I fancied she was measuring its size.

The tight grasp she managed to gain, and the continued jolting of the
carriage, brought me up at last to such a pitch state that a greater
jolt than usual, repeated two or three times in succession, each
followed by a firmer pressure of her charming fingers, caused me such
an excess of excitement that I actually swooned away with the most
delicious sensation I had ever experienced in my life. I was some time
before I knew where I was, or what I was about, and was only made
conscious of our arrival at home by Miss Evelyn shaking me to rouse me
up. I stumbled up, but though partially stupefied, I fancied Miss
Evelyn's eyes shone with a brilliancy I had never before observed, and
that there was a bright hectic flush on her cheek. She refused to go
into the parlour, but hurried to bed on pretence of a headache.

When I retired to bed, and took off my shirt, I found it all sticky and
wet in front.

It was thus I paid down my first tribute to Venus. I thought long over
this evident approach to familiarity on the part of Miss Evelyn, and
went to sleep with a lively hope of a more private interview with her,
when I trusted that her evident passion would initiate me in the
pleasures to be derived from her beauteous body.

But again fate intervened, and another, not less beautiful, more
experienced, and more inclined for the sport, was to be my charming
mistress in love's revels.

Two days after this, Mr. Benson was unexpectedly called away on
pressing affairs, which he feared might detain him three weeks. He left
Mrs. B. with us. As he had to be driven about nine miles to the town
where the coach passed, mamma took the opportunity of going to the town
with him. Mrs. B. complained of not being equal to the fatigue, and
mamma told Miss Evelyn she would like her company, and as the two girls
wanted new shoes, they could go also; I was to remain at home, and
mamma desired me to be quiet and attentive to Mrs. Benson, who,
observing no one, said to me, with a peculiar look:

"I shall want you to hold my skeins, Charlie, so don't go out of the
way, but be ready for me as soon as they are gone."

She then went up to her bedroom, where Mr. B. immediately joined her,
no doubt to re-enact the scene I had already witnessed from the closet
on a previous day. They were fully half an hour occupied together. At
length, all was ready, and off they went, leaving me to a fate I had
little dreamt of.

Mrs. B. proposed we should go up to the drawing-room, which looked out
to the garden, and was nowhere overlooked. I followed her, and could
not help admiring her fine figure as she preceded me in going upstairs.
Although pale in complexion, she was well made, and very elegant in her
carriage, and sat down on a low easy chair, throwing herself completely
back, and crossing one leg over the other, apparently without being
aware that she carried her petticoats up with the action, and exhibited
the beautiful underleg up to the garter.

I had never forgotten the day, when secreted in the closet, I had seen
them completely exposed, and how charming they were. Her present
negligent attitude, although far from the same exposure I speak of, was
still, with the former recollection running in my head, enough to set
my whole blood on fire. I have before remarked what a power beautiful
and well-stockinged legs, and ankles and small feet, had upon my
nervous system, and so it was now. As I gazed upon her handsome legs,
ankles, and feet, I felt my prick swell and throb in a manner that
could not fail to be perceptible to Mrs. B, especially as her head lay
on a level with that part of my person as I stood before her.

Although she continued knitting, I could see that her eyes were
directed to that part of my person, and fixed upon the increasing
distention of my trousers. In a few minutes she gave me a skein of
worsted to hold, and desired me to kneel in front of her, so as to
bring my hands down to the level of the low chair on which she was
seated.

I knelt close to the footstool on which her foot rested; it was raised
up, and a very slight movement brought it against my person, at first
rather below where my throbbing prick was distending my trousers. As
she commenced to wind her ball, she gradually pushed her foot further
forward, until the toe actually touched the knob of my cock, and
occasionally moved it right and left, exciting me beyond measure.

I flushed up to the very ears, and trembled so violently that I thought
I should have dropped the skein.

"My dear boy, what is the matter with you, that you blush and tremble
so, are you unwell?"

I could not answer, blushed more than ever. The skein at length was
finished.

"Charles," she said, "get up, and come here."

I rose and stood by her side.

"What have you got in your trousers that is moving?"

And here her busy fingers commenced unbuttoning them. Released from
confinement, out started my prick--stiff as iron, and as large as that
of a youth of eighteen. Indeed, I was better hung than one boy selected
out of five hundred of that age. Mrs. B., who had pretended to be
perfectly astonished, exclaimed--

"Good gracious, what a pego! Why Charles, my darling, you are a man not
a boy. What a size to be sure!" and she gently handled it. "Is it often
in this state?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"For how long?"

"Ever since Miss Evelyn came."

"And pray, sir, what has Miss Evelyn's coming had to do with it?"

"I--I--I--I--"

"Come now, Charles, be candid with me; what is it you mean where you
say Miss Evelyn has caused you to be in such a state, have you shown
her this, and has she handled it?"

"Oh! dear no; never, never!"

"Is it her face, her bosom, or her legs that have captivated you?"

"It was her feet and ankles, ma'am, with her beautiful legs, which she
sometimes exhibited without knowing."

"And do all ladies' legs and ankles produce this effect upon you?"

"Oh, yes, ma'am, if they are neat and pretty!"

"And what make you so excited now?"

"It was the sight of your beautiful legs just now, and the recollection
of what I saw the other day, ma'am," I stammered out, blushing more
than ever.

While this conversation was going on, her soft hand grasped my
distended prick, and had commenced slowly slipping the loose skin over
the swollen head, and allowing it to slip back again.

"I suppose, Charles, after what you saw in the closet, you know what
this is meant to do."

I muttered out an indistinct reply that I did, and I hung down my
blushing face.

"You have never put it into a lady, have you?"

"Oh! dear no, ma'am."

"Would you like to do so?"

I did not answer, but sheepishly held down my head.

"Did you see what I had in the same place, when you were in the closet?"

I muttered, "Yes, ma'am."

"Would it afford you any pleasure to see it again?"

"Oh, yes; so much!"

Mrs. B. rose, went to the window, drew down the blind, then gently
turned the key in the door. Returning to the chair, and drawing well up
her dress, petticoats and chemise, she exposed all her person up to the
middle of her belly; and sat down stretching herself backwards, and
opening her thighs well.

"Well, my dear boy, look at it if you wish."

I was no longer shy. Nature prompted me to an act of gallantry that
gratified the lady immensely. Falling on my knees, I glued my lips to
the delicious spot, pushing my tongue in as far as I could, and sucked
it. It was quite spunky; I had no doubt but that Mr. B. had fucked her
two or three times just before leaving. This, however, made no
difference to me. The attack was as unexpected as it was delightful to
the lady. She placed both hands on my head and pressed my face against
her throbbing cunt. She was evidently hotly excited, not only by what I
was then doing, but by the scene, the conversation, and the handling of
my prick, which she had been indulging in. She wriggled her bottom
nervously below me, I continued to greedily lick her moist and juicy
cunt.

"Oh! oh! dear Charles, what exquisite delight you are giving me. Oh!
oh!"

And she pressed my face more fully into the gaping sheath, and
thrusting her bottom up at the same time, spent right into my mouth,
over my cheeks, chin, and neck. Her thighs closed convulsively round my
head, and for some moments she remained still. I continued to lick
away, and swallowed the delicious spunk that still flowed from her. At
last she spoke again--

"Oh! you darling Charles, I love you for ever; but get up, it is now my
turn to give you a taste of the exquisite pleasure you have given me."

I raised myself, and she drew me to her, and gave me a long kiss,
licking her own sperm from off my lips and cheek; and desiring me to
thrust my tongue into her mouth, she sucked it deliciously, while her
soft hand and gentle fingers had again sought, found, and caressed my
stiff-standing prick. She then desired me to lay myself on the floor,
with three pillows to raise my head, and lifting up all her petticoats,
and striding across me, with her back to my face, she knelt down, then
stooping forward, she took my standing prick in her mouth, and at the
same time lowering her buttocks, brought her beautiful cunt right over
and down upon my mouth, the pillows exactly supporting my head at the
proper level, to command a thorough enjoyment of the whole, which now I
had completely before my eyes.

In the former sucking my own position hid everything from view beyond
the rich mass of hair adorning her splendid mount of Venus, which I
found to be much more abundant than it had appeared to me when I had
seen it from the closet. When I applied my lips to the delicious gap, I
found that she had the most beautiful silky light curls running up to
and around her charming pink bottom-hole, and losing themselves in the
chink between the buttocks. I applied myself furiously to the delicious
gash, and sucked and thrust my tongue in alternately. I could see by
the nervous twitching of her buttocks, and the bearing down of her
whole bottom on my face, how much she was enjoying it. I, to, was in an
extasy of delight. One hand gently frigged the lower portion of my
prick, while the other played with my balls, and her beautiful mouth,
lips, and tongue sucked, pressed, and tickled the head of my excited
prick. The more furiously I sucked her cunt, the more her lips
compressed the head of my pego, and her tongue sought to enter the
urethra, giving me almost overpowering delight. Such reciprocal efforts
soon brought on the extatic crisis, I cried out:

"Oh, lady! oh, dear lady! let me go; I am dying!"

She knew well enough what was coming, but she had her own way, and at
the instant that she again poured down upon my mouth and face a
plenteous discharge, her own rosy mouth received a torrent of my sperm.

For some minutes we lay mutually breathless and exhausted. Then Mrs. B.
rose, shook down her clothes, assisted me to rise, and taking me in her
arms, and pressing me lovingly to her bosom, told me I was a dear
charming fellow, and had enraptured her beyond measure. She then
embraced me fondly, kissing my mouth and eyes, and desiring me to give
her my tongue, sucked it so sweetly.

"Now, fasten up your trousers, my darling boy."

When I had done so, the blind was drawn up, and the door unlocked.

We sat down, I by her side with one arm round her lovely neck, and the
other clasped in her hand.

"I am sure I can depend upon your prudence, my dear Charles, to keep
all this a profound secret from every one. Your mamma thinks you a
child, and will suspect nothing. I shall take an opportunity of
suggesting that you shall sleep in the small room adjoining my bedroom,
and with which there is a door of communication. When every one is gone
to bed, I shall open the door, and you shall come and sleep with me,
and I will let you enjoy me as you saw Mr. B. do the other day. Will
you like that?"

"Oh! above all things, oh, yes. But you must also allow me to kiss that
delicious spot again that has just given me such pleasure. Will you
not, ma'am?"

"Oh, yes, my darling boy, whenever we can do so safely, and unobserved;
but I must impress upon you never to seem very familiar with me before
any one, or to take the slightest liberty unless I invite you to do so.
Anything of the sort would certainly draw attention, and lead to our
detection, and at once put an end to what I mean shall be a delightful
connection for you as well as myself."

I, of course, promised the most perfect obedience to her very prudent
directions. The ice was broken, and we allowed no ceremony to stand
between us. I grew again very excited, and would fain have proceeded at
once to try again to fuck her as well as suck her, but she was
inexorable, and told me I should only spoil the pleasure we should
afterwards have in bed. The day passed like an hour in her charming
society.

The carriage brought mamma and party to dinner. Mamma hoped I had
behaved well, and been attentive to Mrs. B. in her absence. She
answered nothing could be better, and that I was quite a model
youth--so gentle and so obedient.

My mother found that she had caught cold, and had febrile symptoms
after dinner. Mrs. B. persuaded her to retire to bed, and accompanied
her. When in her room, she apparently noticed, for the first time, my
little bed. She took the opportunity of suggesting that it would be
much better to remove it to the small room, so as to leave my mother in
perfect quiet, which my coming to bed might disturb.

This was said in such an innocent natural manner, that no suspicion was
excited on the part of mamma or anybody else. Mamma only making the
objection that my early rising might by my noise disturb Mrs. B. in the
next room.

"Oh, no; I am not so easily disturbed, besides he has been so well
behaved all day, that I am sure, if I tell him to be quiet in the
morning, he will not fail to do so."

So it was settled, and my bed was at once removed to the little room.

I know not what Miss Evelyn thought of this; at any rate, she made no
remark, and I went to bed early. It will easily be conceived that I did
not go to sleep. The hours struck one after the other, and no
appearance of my amiable instructress. The remembrance of all her
charms was ever present to my mind's eye, and I longed once more to
dart my tongue into her moist and juicy cunt, as well as to try the new
method that was to initiate me into the real secrets of Venus.

The long delay of her coming put me in a perfect fever. I tossed and
tumbled in bed; my prick throbbed almost to bursting. Fortunately, I
had never frigged myself, and that resource never occured to me, or I
might have rendered myself quite incapable of enjoying the raptures my
beautiful benefactress afterwards entranced me with. At last I heard
voices and footsteps on the stairs. Mrs. B. bid Miss Evelyn good night,
and the next minute her door was opened, closed again, and the key
turned in the lock. I had taken the precaution to do so with my door. I
heard her use the night vase, and then she opened my door, at once
coming to my bed side. Seeing me awake and quite flushed, she kissed
me, and whispered--

"Have you not been to sleep, Charles?"

"No, ma'am," I answered, in the same subdued tone, "I could not sleep."

"Why, dear boy?"

"Because I was going to sleep with you."

Her lips pressed mine, and her soft hand, thrust under the clothes;
sought for and caressed my stiff-standing prick--it was as hard as iron.

"Poor boy, I am afraid you have been suffering. How long has it been in
this state?"

"All the evening, ma'am, and I did think you were such a long time in
coming."

"Well, Charles, I could not come sooner without causing suspicion--I
thought Miss Evelyn was suspicious, so I pretended to have no desire to
go to bed; and even when she showed evident symptoms of drowsiness
after her long ride, I rallied her upon it, and begged her to sit up
with me yet a little; until at last she could hold out no longer, and
begged me to let her retire. I grumblingly complied, and she is thrown
completely off any scent on our account, as she could never suppose I
was impatient as you to come here. I shall undress as fast as possible,
and then do my best to relieve you of this painful stiffness. Get up,
shut this door, and come to my bed. My room has an inner baize door,
and we shall there be certain of not being overheard."

I instantly complied, and she commenced undressing. Every detail of her
charming toilet was devoured by my greedy eyes. Her smooth, glossy, and
abundant hair, arranged in braids, was neatly fastened in under a
coquettish lace cap with pretty blue ribbons. Her _chemise de nuit_ of
the finest, almost transparent cambric was edged with fine openwork.
She looked devine. The drawers of the commode contained scent bags of
that peculiar odour which is generally found to perfume the persons of
the most seductive women. In another moment she was in bed, clasping me
in her arms.

"Now, Charles, you must be a good boy, and make no noise, and allow me
to teach you your first love lesson, see I will lay myself down on my
back, thus--do you place yourself on your knees between my out-spread
thighs--there, that is a darling--now let me lay hold of your dear
instrument. Now lay yourself down on me."

I placed myself on her beautiful smooth and white belly and pressed
against the hair of her mount. With her long taper fingers she guided
my prick--I trembled in every limb and almost felt sick with
excitement--but when I felt the delicious sensation caused by the
insertion of my skinned pintle between the smooth warm oily folds of
the lady's cunt--I gave but one shove which carried me up so that I
swooned away on her belly and milk-white bosom.

When I came to myself I still lay on her belly, enfolded in her lovely
arms, my prick sheathed up to the cods in her delicious cunt, which was
throbbing in the most extatic way and pressing and closing with every
fold on my prick--which had hardly lost any of its pristine stiffness;
as my eyes began to discern her features, an exquisite smile played
upon my darling companion's lips.

"You sad rogue," she whispered, "you have given me a baby; what have
you been doing to make you spend so soon, and in such a quantity, Did
you like it?"

"Oh, dearest madam, I have been in heaven--surely no joy can be greater
than you have given me."

"But you do not know as yet everything that is to be done, and to how
much greater an extent the pleasure may be enhanced by mutual efforts;
move your instrument gently in and out--there, that is delicious, but
not so fast. Good, is it not nice!"

And she moved in unison with me, meeting each slow thrust down by an
equal movement upwards, and squeezing my prick in the most delicious
manner internally, as she retired again to meet succeeding thrusts in
the same way.

Oh! it was extatic--my prick, swollen to its utmost size, seemed to
fill her exquisite vagina, which although capable of easily
accommodating the larger prick of Mr. B., appeared to be sufficiently
contracted to embrace tightly with its smooth and slippery folds my
stiff throbbing prick. So we continued, I shoving myself into her, and
she upheaving her beautiful bottom to meet me. My hands removed
everywhere, and my mouth sucked her lips and tongue, or wandered over
her pulpy breasts sucking their tiny nipples. It was a long bout
indeed, prolonged by Mrs. Benson's instructions, and she enjoyed it
thoroughly, encouraged me by every endearing epithet, and by the most
voluptuous manoeuvres. I was quite beside myself. The consciousness
that I was thrusting my most private part into that part of a lady's
person which is regarded with such sacred delicacy caused me to
experience the most enraptured pleasure. Maddened by the intensity of
my feeling I at length quickened my pace. My charming companion did the
same, and we together yielded down a most copious and delicious
discharge.

Although I retained sufficient rigidity to keep him in his place, Mrs.
B. would not allow any further connection with her, and she made me
withdraw, and bade me go to sleep like a good boy, and she would give
me a further lesson in the morning.

Finding that she was determined on this point, and that she disposed
herself to slumber, I felt I was obliged to follow her example, and at
last fell fast asleep. It might be about five in the morning, quite
light at that time of year, when I awoke, and instead of finding
myself, as usual, in my own little bed--I found my arms round the
person of a charming woman, whose large plump smooth bottom lay in my
lap, pressing against my belly and thigh. I found my prick already in a
rampant state, and it at once began throbbing and forcing its way
between the delicious cheeks of her immense bottom, seeking the
delightful sheath it had so enjoyed the previous part of the night.
Whether Mrs. B, was asleep or not, I do not know, but am inclined to
think she really was so, from the muttered mistake she made in waking.
She was probably dreaming, for she mechanically raised her thighs. I
pressed my prick stoutly forward against her luxurious body, knowing
that the entrance to the temple of pleasure which had so entranced me
the night before lay in that direction. I found more difficulties than
I expected, but at length began to penetrate, although the orifice
appeared much tighter than on the previous evening. Excited by the
difficulties of entrance, I clasped the lady firmly round the waist and
pushed forcibly and steadily forward. I felt the folds give way to the
iron stiffness of my prick, and one-half of it was fairly embedded in
my extremely tight sheath. I put down my hand to press my prick a
little downwards to facilitate the further entrance; you may imagine my
astonishment when on so doing I found myself in the lady's bottom-hole,
instead of her cunt. This at once explained the difficulty of entrance.
I was about to withdraw and place it in the proper orifice when a
convulsive pressure of the sphincter caused me such exquisite
satisfaction by the pressure of the folds on the more sensitive upper
half of my prick, which was so delicious, and so much tighter, and more
exciting than my previous experience of the cunt that I could not
resist the temptation of carrying the experiment to the end. Therefore,
thrusting my two fingers into her cunt, I pressed my belly forwards
with all my might, and sheathed my prick in her bottom-hole to its full
extent. Mrs. B at this awoke, and exclaimed, "Good Heavens! Fred, you
hurt me cruelly. I wish you would be content with my cunt, I shall be
unable to walk tomorrow. You know it always has that effect. It is
downright cruel of you--but since you are in, stay quiet a little, and
then continue to frig me with your fingers, as you know that eventually
gives me great pleasure."

She calls me Fred, what can she mean? I was, however, too agreeably
situated to speculate on anything, but as I was now buried within her
bottom-hole, I lay quiet for a few minutes as she had requested; and as
her complaints subsided, and I felt a slight reciprocating movement, I,
too, moved within her, working at the same time my two fingers in her
cunt. By this time she was wide awake, and became conscious of who was
her bed-fellow.

"What are you about, Charles?" she exclaimed, "do you know where you
are?"

"I did not know I was doing anything wrong."

"Doing wrong, indeed! My, a lady's bottom-hole was never intended for a
pego. How came you to put it in there?"

"I cannot tell; I did not do it on purpose. I thought I was going into
the same delightful place I was in last night."

All this time I was moving my prick in and out of one aperture, and my
fingers were working away in the other. The tightness of the sheath
round my prick was delicious beyond anything I could conceive, and I
think, from the way the lady conducted herself, she liked it as much as
I did. At any rate, she permitted me to go on until I had a delicious
discharge; and she herself spent all over my hand.

When the bout was over, she jumped out of bed, went to the basin, and
with a sponge purified herself. After which, she said--

"My dear boy, you had better come and wash yourself, too; and take care
not to make a mistake of this kind again, as it is sometimes attended
with disagreeable consequences."

It was now perfect sunny daylight, and my enchanting mistress looked so
lovely in her almost transparent cambric night-shirt that I was
emboldened to ask her to let me see her perfectly naked in all her
glorious beauty of form. She gratified me at once; but laughingly,
pulled off my night-shirt, and said--

"I, too, must have the pleasure not only of contemplating your
promising youthful charms, but of embracing your dear form
disencumbered of all the superfluities of dress."

We clasped each other in a most enrapturing embrace, and then my lovely
and engaging companion allowed me to turn her in every direction so as
to see, admire, and devour every charm of her exquisitely formed body.
Oh! she was indeed beautiful--shoulders broad, bosom, or rather upper
neck, flat, not showing any projection of the collar bone; bubbies
firm, well separated and round, with most exquisite rosy nipples not
much developed; a perfect waist, small naturally, with charming
swelling hips, and an immense bottom--it was almost out of proportion,
large, but oh, how beautiful. Then her belly, undulating so enticingly,
and swelling out, the lowest part into a very fine and prominent mons
Veneris, covered with a thick crop of silky and curly light hair; then
the entrance to the grotto of Venus had such delicious pouting lips,
rosy, but with hair still thick on each side, which is often not the
case even with women who have a sufficient tuft above, how beautiful
where it exists as it did in this charming and perfect woman,
continuing in beautiful little curls not only down to but around her
lovely pinky and puckered little bottom-hole, the delights of which I
had already, in this infancy of my love education, tasted and enjoyed.
Her two alabaster thighs, worthily supporting by their large
well-rounded fleshy forms, the exquisite perfections of the upper body,
I have already described. How beautiful, elegant, and elongated her
legs were, rising from well-turned ankles and most tiny beautiful feet.
Her skin was white as milk, and dazzlingly fair and smooth. To my young
eyes she was a perfect goddess of beauty. Even now, in advanced life, I
can remember nothing that, as a whole surpassed her, although I have
met many with points unsurpassingly beautiful--some carry it in the
bosom, some in the general carriage, some in the mount of Venus and
bottom together, and some in legs and thighs; but this devine creature,
without having the appearance of it when dressed, was, when stripped,
perfect in all her parts as well as beautiful in face--caressing and
voluptuous by nature, and lending herself, with the most enchanting
graces to instruct me in all the mysteries of love, and let me say, of
_lust_ also.

We caressed each other with such mutual satisfaction that nature soon
drove us to a closer and more active union of the bodies. Fondly
embracing one another, we approached the bed, and being equally excited
threw ourselves upon it, and, in the exquisite contact of our naked
flesh, enjoyed a long, long bout of love, in which my most charming
companion exhibited all the resources of amorous enjoyment. Never shall
I forget the luxury of that embrace. She checked my natural tendency to
rush at once to a completion. I think we must have enjoyed the raptures
of that embrace fully half an hour before bringing on the grand finale,
in which my active companion showed the extraordinary suppleness of her
delicious body by throwing her legs over my back, pushing my bottom
forward with her heels, and raising and sinking her bottom in unison
with each thrust of my terribly stiff prick, which seemed to swell and
become thicker and harder than ever. In retiring from each thrust, her
cunt seemed to close upon my prick with the force of a pair of pincers.
We both came to the extatic moment at the same time, and both actually
screamed with delight; my ardent mistress in her fury of excitement
actually bit my shoulder and drew blood; but I felt it not--I was in
the seventh heaven of delight, and lay for long almost insensible on
her beauteous body, clasped in her loving arms. On coming to our senses:

"Oh, my beloved boy," she said, "never, never, have I experienced such
pleasure. You are a perfect angel. I only fear I shall come to love you
too much."

We turned on our sides without dislodging the dear instrument of our
enjoyment, and my lovely friend prattled on and delighted me with her
toying, embracing, and gaiety. My prick had once more swelled up, and I
wished to quietly enjoy a fuck in the luxurious position in which we
lay; but my lovely friend said--

"That must not be, my dear Charles, I must consider your health. You
have already done more than your age warrants, and you must rise and go
to your bed to recover, by a sound sleep, your strength."

"But feel how strong I am," and I gave a forcible thrust into her
glowing and well-moistened sheath. But, though she certainly was
greatly excited, she suddenly turned round and unseated me, and drew
away from me, refusing to take it again. As she was quite naked, the
movements of her beauteous form were most graceful and enchanting, and
one leg being thrown backwards left her lovely cunt full in view, and
actually gaping open before me. Seized with the strongest desire to
suck and kiss it, as I had done the night before, I begged that at
least she would grant me that last favour, as it could not in any way
do me harm. To this she readily consented, and lay down on her back,
opening her glorious thighs, and with a pillow under her bottom so as
to raise up her cunt into a better position for me to gamahuche her, as
she called it. Before letting me begin, she said--

"My dear Charles, do you see that little projection at the upper part
of my quim, that is my clitoris, and is the site of the most exquisite
sensation; you see it is rather hard, even now, but you will find as
you titillate it with your tongue or suck it, that it will become
harder and more projecting, so apply your lips there."

I did as my lovely mistress desired, and soon found it stiffen and stand
up nearly an inch into my mouth.

The convulsive twitches of her buttocks, the pressure forward of her
hand on my head, all proved the exquisite felicity my lovely friend was
enjoying. I slipped my hand under my chin--the position was awkward,
but I managed to thrust my thumb into her cunt. My forefinger was
somewhat in the way--but finding it exactly opposite the rosy hole of
her bottom, and all being very moist there, I pushed it forward and it
easily entered. I could not move my hand very actively, but I continued
to gently draw my finger and thumb a little back together, and then
thrust forward again. It seemed to add immensely to the pleasure I was
giving her; her whole body quivered with excessive excitement. My head
was pressed so firmly against her cunt that I had difficulty in
breathing, but I managed to keep up the action of tongue and fingers
until I brought on the exquisite crisis--her buttocks rose, her hand
pressed hard on my head and her two powerful and fleshy thighs closed
on my cheeks on each side and fixed me as if in a vice, while she
poured down into my mouth and all over my chin, neck, and hand a
perfect rush of sperm, and then lay in convulsive movements of
enjoyment, hardly knowing what she was doing. As she held me so fast in
every way, I continued to lick up the delicious discharge, and
continued at the same time to pass my tongue over her clitoris. This,
by producing a new excitement, brought her senses round. So relaxing
her hold of me with her thighs she said--

"Oh, my darling Charles, come up to my arms that I may kiss you for the
exquisite delight you have given me." I did so, but took care, in
drawing myself up, to engroove my stiff-standing prick in the
well-moistened open cunt that lay raised on a pillow so conveniently in
the way.

"Oh, you sad traitor," cried my sweet companion. "No, I cannot, I must
not allow it," but I held her tight round the waist, and her position
was too favourable for me to be easily unhorsed.

"Ah! you must not, my dear boy. If you will not consider yourself,
consider me. I shall be quite exhausted." I shut her mouth with my
kisses and tongue, and soon the active movements I was making within
her charming vagina exercised their usual influence on her lubricity,
so as to make her as eager for the fray as myself.

"Stop, my dear Charles, and you shall have it in a new position, which
will give you as much more pleasure as it will me."

"You are not going to cheat me, are you?"

"Oh, no! my darling, I am now as much on fire as you are--withdraw."

I obeyed, half in fear. My fair mistress turned herself round, and
getting on her hands and knees, presented to my ardent gaze her
magnificent bottom. I thought she meant me to once more put it into the
rosy little orifice, and said so.

"Oh! no," she replied, "not there"; but putting her hand under her
belly, and projecting it backwards between her thighs, she said--

"Give it me and I will guide it into the proper place."

Before doing so I stooped forward and pushing my face between the
glorious cheeks of her bottom, sought and found the lovely little
orifice, kissed it, and thrust my tongue in.

"Oh! don't Charles, dear, you tickle me so," then flinching, and
squeezing her buttocks together, I had nothing for it but to put my
prick in her hand. She immediately guided it to and engulphed it in her
burning cunt up to the very hair. I found I apparently got in fully an
inch further this way--the position also gave my beautiful instructress
more power of pressure on my prick--then her glorious buttocks, heaving
under my movements, and exposed in all their immensity, was most
exciting and beautiful. I seized her below the waist with a hand upon
each hip, pressing her magnificent backside against me each time that I
thrust forward. Oh! it was indeed glorious to see. I was beside myself,
and furious with the excitement the view of all these charms produced
upon me. My charming mistress seemed equally to enjoy it, as was
evinced by the splendid movements of her body; till at last overcome by
the grand finale, she sank forward on her belly, and I followed on her
back, without losing the position of my throbbing prick within her. We
both lay for some time incapable of movement, but the internal
squeezing and convulsive pressure of her cunt on my softened, but still
enlarged prick, were exquisite beyond imagining. At last she begged me
to relieve her. Getting out of bed, she sighed deeply, kissed me
tenderly, and said, "My dear Charles, we must not be so extravagant in
future, it will destroy us both--come, let me see you to your bed." The
sight of my lovely mistress standing naked in all the glory of her
beauty and perfection of form began to have its usual effect upon my
prick, which showed symptoms of raising his head again; she gave it a
pat, stooped down, and for a moment plunged its head into her beautiful
mouth, then seizing my night-shirt, she threw it over my head and
conducted me to my own bed, put me in, tucked me up, and tenderly
kissing me, left the room, first unlocking my door and then locking the
door of communication between the two rooms. Thus passed the first
glorious night of my initiation into all the rites of Venus, and at the
hands of a lovely, fresh and beautiful woman, who had only been married
long enough to make her a perfect adept in the art. Never, oh never!
have I passed such a night. Many and many a fine woman, perfect too in
the art of fucking, have I enjoyed, but the novelty and the charm, the
variety and the superiority of the teacher, all combined to make this
night the _ne plus ultra_ of erotic pleasure.

It need not be said that, exhausted by the numerous encounters I had in
love's battlefield, I fell into a deep and sound sleep, until aroused
by being rudely shaked up. I opened my eyes in astonishment. It was my
sister Mary. She threw her arms round my neck, and kissing me, said--

"You lazy boy, do you know they are _all_ down at breakfast, and you
still asleep. What has come over you?"

"Oh!" I said, "I got frightened with a horrible dream, and lay awake so
long afterwards that when I did sleep, I overslept myself."

"Well, get up at once," and pulling the clothes quite off me, she laid
bare my whole private parts, with my cock, as usual in youth on waking,
at full stand.

"Oh! Charlie," said Mary, fixing her eyes upon it in astonishment at
its thickness and length. "How your doodle has grown," and she laid
hold of it. "Why it is as hard as wood, and see how red its head is."
Without her knowing why, it evidently had its natural effect on her
sense, and she flushed as she squeezed it.

"Ah! my dear Mary, I have learnt a great secret about that thing, which
I will tell you the first time we can be quite alone and secure from
interruption. Just now there is no time, but before you go downstairs,
let me see how your poor little Fanny is."

We had been used to these infantile expressions when in our ignorance
and innocence we had mutual examinations of the difference of our
sexes, and my sister was still as ignorant and innocent as ever. So
when I said that I had not seen it since it was so ill-treated in the
terrible whipping she had received from Miss Evelyn, she at once pulled
up all her petticoats for me to look at it.

"Lie back for a moment on the bed."

She complied. I was delighted. The prominence her mons Veneris had
assumed, the increased growth of moss-like little curls, and the
pouting lips of her tiny slit--all was most promising and charming. I
stooped and kissed it, licking her little prominent clitoris with my
tongue; it instantly hardened, and she gave a convulsive twitch of her
loins.

"Oh! Charlie, how nice it is! What is it you are doing? Oh, how nice!
Oh, pray go on."

But I stopped, and said--

"Not at present, my darling sister, but when we can get away together I
will do that and something much better, all connected with the great
secret I have got to tell you. So run downstairs, and tell them why I
had overslept myself, but not a word to anyone about what I have told
you. I will be down in a trice."

She went away, saying--

"Oh, Charlie, dear, what you did just now was so nice, and has made me
feel so queer; do find an early opportunity of telling me all about it."

Very few minutes sufficed to finish my toilet and bring me to the
breakfast table.

"Why, Charlie," broke out my mother, "what is this horrid dream?"

"I can hardly tell you, my dear mother, it was so confused; but I was
threatened to be murdered by horrid-looking men, and at last taken to
high rocks and thrown down. The agony and fright awoke me, screaming,
and all over perspiration. I could not sleep for hours after, even
though I hid my head under the clothes."

"Poor child," said Mrs. Benson, who was quietly eating her breakfast.
"What a fright you must have had."

"Yes, ma'am, and at the same time, as I awoke with a scream, I was
afraid I might have disturbed you, for all at once I remembered I was
no longer in mamma's room, but next door to you. I hope I did not wake
you?"

"Oh, no, my dear boy; I never heard you, or I should have got up to see
what was the matter."

So it passed off, and no further observation was made about it, but I
once caught Mrs. Benson's eye, and the expression and a slight nod was
a sign of approval of my story. After breakfast we went as usual to the
school-room. I thought Miss Evelyn was kinder in her manner to me than
usual. She made me stand close to her when saying my lessons,
occasionally letting her left arm fall round my neck, while she pointed
to my book with the finger of the right, and there was always a certain
pressure before raising her arm again. These little caresses were
frequently repeated, as if she were wishing either to accustom me or
herself to a habit of it, so as, doubtless, gradually to increase them
to something more definite. I could not help feeling what a different
effect these endearments would have had twenty-four hours earlier; but
now, momentarily satisfied passions, and the new love that had seized
me for Mrs. B., prevented at first the inevitable cockstand that would
otherwise have been produced by these approaches of Miss Evelyn. Not
that I had given up all desire to possess her. On the contrary, my last
night's instruction only made me more anxious to have Miss Evelyn too.
Therefore, I by no means repulsed her present caresses, but looked up
innocently in her face, and smiled affectionately. In the afternoon she
was more expansive, and drew me to her by her arm round my waist, and
pressed me gently to her person, saying how well I was attending to my
lessons, and how sorry she was to have been obliged to punish me so
severely the week before.

"You will be a good boy in future, will you not, dear Charlie?"

"Oh, yes; as long as you are so kind to me. I love you so much, and you
are so beautiful when you speak so kindly to me."

"Oh, you little flatterer."

And she drew me to her lips and gave me a sweet kiss, which I returned
with eagerness. I felt my prick had raised itself up to its full extent
as these caresses were exchanged, and as Miss Evelyn held me tight
pressed against her thigh, she must have felt it throbbing against her.
That she did so, I have no doubt, as her face flushed, and she said--

"There, now, that will do, go to your seat."

I obeyed; she rose in an agitated manner, left the room, and was absent
for a quarter of an hour. I had no doubt but that she was overcome by
her feelings, and I thought to myself she will manage to have me some
of these days. I could afford to leave it to her own discretion, as my
charming mistress of last night was there to keep me in exercise and
cool the effervescence of passion under which I should otherwise have
laboured. Nothing particular occured during the day; Mrs. B. was
apparently indifferent about me, and never sought to approach or be in
any way familiar; I studied her looks and followed her example. Mamma
sent me early to bed, as she feared I had not had sleep enough the
previous night by reason of my bad dream, and hoped I should have no
more of the kind. This time my beautiful mistress found me sound asleep
when she came to bed. She did not awake me until she had completed her
night toilet, and was all ready to receive me in her arms. I sprung up,
and in an instant, without a word being said, had her on her back, and
was into her delicious cunt as far as I could drive my stiff-standing
prick. My energy and fury seemed to please and stimulate the lady, for
she replied to every eager thrust with as eager a spring forward. In
such haste matters were very speedily brought to a crisis--with mutual
sighs, and "oh's" and "ah's," we sank exhausted, and lay for a very
short time, when charming Mrs. B. said--

"Why, Charles, you are quite wild to me; what a hurry you have been in,
but it was very nice, and I forgive you, but you must be more rational
in future."

"Oh, my beloved mistress, how can I help it; you are so beautiful, and
so good to me; I quite adore and love every part of your charming body.
I know I was too impetuous, but I must make it up by kissing and
fondling the dear source of all my joys."

She did not resist, but let me do as I liked. Pushing myself down the
bed, I applied my lips and tongue to her lovely cunt, all wet with our
mutual discharge, which was so sweet to the taste that I first began
licking between the lips, and the applied myself to her excited
clitoris, and with my finger and thumb working as on the previous
morning I threw her into an extasy of delight, until again she had a
delicious discharge. Then creeping up, I thrust my prick into her
well-moistened and velvety cunt--as you may imagine it was rampant as
ever after my mouth contact with the exquisite quim I had been sucking.

"Stop, Charles, darling, I will show you another position, where you
can lie easily with your dear delightful prick up to the hilt in the
sheath you have so charmingly excited. Here, lie down by my right side
--on your side."

She lay down on her back, and throwing her right leg over my hips, told
me to bend my knees forward and open my legs, or rather lift up my
right leg. She placed her left thigh between my thighs, then slightly
twisting her bottom up towards me brought the lips of her cunt directly
before my prick, which she seized with her delicate fingers, and guided
safely into Venus's grotto. I gave one or two shoves, and she a heave
or two, to house him comfortably.

"And now," she said, "we will take it reasonably in this way; we can go
on, or stay occasionally; embrace, cuddle, or talk, just as we please.
Are you quite comfortable?"

"Oh! deliciously so!" I replied, as my hand wandered all over her
beautiful belly and bubbies, and then my mouth sucked the last.

"There, darling, that will do for the moment; I want to have some talk
with you. First, let me thank you for your very discreet behaviour this
day, it quite justifies the confidence I had in you. Your story of the
dream was capital, and just suited the purpose. I hope, my dear
Charlie, that under my auspices you will become a model lover--your
aptitude has already proved in several ways. First and best, with all
the appearance of a boy, you are quite a man, and even superior to
many. You have already shown great discretion and ready wit, and there
is no reason to fear that you will become a general favourite with our
sex, who soon find out who is discreet and who is otherwise--discretion
is the trump card of success with us. Alas! few of your sex understand
this. Let me impress one lesson on you, my dear Charles. You and I
cannot continue long on our present footing. My husband will return and
carry me away, and although circumstances will throw us at intervals
into each other's arms--for you may be sure you will be always welcome
to me--yet my very absence will force you to seek other outlets to the
passions I have awakened and taught their power. I have one piece of
advice to give you as to your conduct to newer lovers--for have them
you must, my dear Charles, however much you may fancy yourself now
attached to me; with these, let them all for some time imagine that
each possesses you for the first time. First of all, it doubles their
satisfaction, and so increases your pleasure. Your early discretion
causes me to think that you will see all the advantages of this
conduct. I may add that if they suppose you have had previous
instruction, they, if they are women, will never rest until they have
drawn from you the secret of your first instructress. You might, of
course, tell some tale of a 'cock and a bull,' but in searching for the
truth and cross-questioning you when you are least aware of it, they
will lead you into contradictions, and the truth will at last be
ferreted out. Now this would be unjust to me, who have risked a good
deal to give you the delightful instructions of last night, and, as I
hope, of many more. So you see, my dear Charles, in all early cases you
must enact the part of an ignoramus _seeking_ for instruction, with
vague ideas of how to set about it. I hope, while I am near you," she
added, "no such occasion will arise, but I feel certain, with your
passions and your power, dear, darling fellow--push away--I!--I!--I
feel for cer--certain they will ar--arise."

Thus ended the very wise and excellent advice this charming woman was
giving me. Do not imagine that I did not pay great attention, and,
indeed, her very reasonable maxims became the guide of my after-life,
and I owe to them a success with women rarely otherwise obtained. Her
sensible remark had been drawn out to such a length, that my prick had
so far rebelled that he had throbbed inside of her delicious cunt so
forcibly as to produce a happy movement of her body that interrupted
and cut short her words.

"Charlie, my darling, pass your middle finger down and rub it on my
clitoris, and then suck the nipple of my bubby next you, and work away
with your glorious prick."

I did as desired. She seconded me with an art quite peculiar to
herself, and at last we both died away in that love's death which is so
overpowering and so delicious. The glorious position we were in
rendered it almost impossible to lose ground, spend as often as you
please; but if my prick had been one that would have shrunk to nothing,
the wonderful power of retaining it within her possessed by my
delicious mistress would have prevented the possibility of exit.

In after-nights I have often fallen sound asleep with it entirely
engulphed within her, and awoke hours afterwards to find her
extraordinary power of retention had held him firm, notwithstanding his
having shrunk up to a mere piece of doughy flesh. In this instance,
after recovering our senses, I still retained my place, and we
recommenced our conversation; my lovely instructress giving me many and
most useful hints for my after-life. I have often since dwelt on the
wisdom of all she so charmingly taught me, and wondered how so young a
woman could have so thorough a knowledge of her sex and the world. I
suppose love is a great master and inspired her on this occasion. I may
here remark that for forty years afterwards this charming woman and I
remained the fastest of friends after being the most ardent of lovers.
She was the depository of all my erotic extravagancies, and never
showed any jealousy, but really enjoyed the recital of my wildest love
combats with others.

Alas! death at last took her from me, and I lost the mainstay of my
existence. Forgive this digression, but I am writing long after these
events, and sorrows will have their vent. Woe is me!

To return to present joys. We continued talking and toying, until I was
again anxious to commence love's combat. My prudent mistress wished me
to finish for the time, and to sleep and refresh ourselves for renewed
efforts; but youth and strength nerved me for the fight, and being
securely fixed, I held her as in a vice, with my thighs around only one
of hers that could have allowed her to escape. Passing my finger down
on her stiffened clitoris I so excited her that she had no wish but to
bring matters to a crisis.

"Stop, my dear," she said, "and we will renew our pleasure in another
attitude."

So withdrawing her leg off my loins, she turned on her side, so as to
present her glorious buttocks before me, and pressed them into my belly
and against my thighs, which seemed to introduce my prick even further
than he was within before. Besides, in all these positions, where a
woman presents her splendid backside to you, it is always more
exciting, and has a greater hold of you than any other way. We did most
thoroughly enjoy this splendid fuck, and without withdrawing, both fell
into the sweetest imaginable slumber. This was one of those occasions
in which, having fallen asleep engulphed, I awoke some five hours
later, to find my prick still lightly held within the velvety folds of
one of the most delicious cunts ever created for the felicity of man,
or, I may say, woman either. You may easily imagine how soon my prick
swelled to his wonted size on finding himself still in such charming
quarters. I let him lay quite still, barring the involuntary throbs he
could not avoid making, and bending my body away from my lovely
mistress, I admired her breadth of shoulders, the beauty of her upper
arm, the exquisite _chute_ of her loins, the swell of her hips, and the
glorious projection and rotundity of her immense buttocks. I slowly and
gently pushed in and out of her juicy sheath, until, awakened by the
exquisite sensations of my slow movements, all her lubricity was
excited, and we ended one of our most delicious encounters, finishing,
as usual, with a death-like exhaustion. She declared I had done enough
for one night, and jumping out of bed, compelled me to betake myself to
my own room, where, I must confess, I very shortly slept as sound as
could be, without at the same time oversleeping myself.

Thus passed several successive nights, until the fall of the moon, when
one day Mrs. B. complained of headache and feeling unwell. I was very
much alarmed, but she took occasion to tell me it was quite natural,
and she would explain to me how it was so at night. I was obliged to be
content with this. At night, she came and sat on my bed, and told me
all the mysteries of the case. How women, not with child, had these
bleedings monthly, which, so far from being hurtful, were a relief to
the system, and that they happened at the full or the new moon,
generally at the former. Further, that all connection with men must
cease at such a time. I was in despair, for my prick was stiff enough
to burst. However, my kind and darling mistress, to relieve me from the
pain of distention, took my prick in her mouth, and performed a new
manoeuvre. Wetting her middle finger with her saliva, she thrust it up
my bottom-hole, and worked in unison with the suction of the knob, and
the frigging of the root of my prick with the other hand. I had a most
exquisite and copious discharge, the pleasure being greatly enhanced by
the action of the finger up my fundament. My charming mistress
swallowed all I could give her, and did not cease sucking until the
last drop had exuded from my throbbing prick.

I was obliged to be satisfied with this, and my mistress informed me I
could have no more enjoyment for four or five days; which, to my
impatience, was like condemning me to as many ages of hope deferred. I
observed, while she was kissing me, that her breath had a peculiar
odour, and I asked her what she had been eating.

"Why do you ask, my dear boy?"

"Because of the difference of your breath, generally so sweet and
fragrant."

She smiled and said it was all from the same cause she had just been
explaining to me, and was very generally so with women at that period.
I mention this because it was the means of my discovering that Miss
Evelyn was exactly in the same state. She had continued her endearing
caresses without proceeding much further than I have already described,
except more frequently kissing me. She now always did so on first
entering the school-room, and also when we were dismissed. I suppose to
prevent an observation or inference, she had adopted the same habit
with my sisters. On this day, having drawn me with her arm round my
waist close to her, when she kissed me I felt the very same odour of
breath that I had observed in Mrs. Benson. She too was languid that day
and complained of headache. I also observed a dark line under her eyes,
and on afterwards observing Mrs. B., saw precisely the same--so I
became convinced they were unwell from the same cause. Mrs. B. had told
me that most women were so at the full of the moon--which was then the
case.

The next day my mother proposed to drive to town, and probably knowing
the state of the case, asked Mrs. B. and Miss Evelyn to accompany her,
as she thought the airing would be beneficial. They at once
accepted--my younger sister cried out, "Oh, mamma, let me go with you
also." Mary interposed, and thought she had the best right--but Lizzie
said she had spoken first. I managed to give Mary a wink and a shake of
the head, which she instantly comprehended, so gracefully giving way,
although with apparent reluctance, it was arranged that Eliza should
accompany the ladies. I now felt my opportunity was at hand to initiate
my darling sister into the delightful mysteries that I had just been
myself instructed in.

At eleven o'clock the carriage drove up, and we stood looking after
them until they were lost to sight. Then returning into the parlour,
Mary threw her arms round my neck, and kissing me, said--

"Oh! I am glad, Charlie, you winked to me, for now you know we can do
as we like, and you can tell me all about this secret, and you must
kiss my little Fanny as you did before, it was so nice. I have thought
of nothing else, but how to have it done again."

"Well, my darling, I shall do all that, and more, but we cannot do so
here. I tell you what we will do--we will pretend to go for a long walk
in the country, but instead of that, we will pass through the shrubbery
into the orchard and hazelwood, and so gain the little remote summer
house, of which I have secured the key; there we shall be safe from all
observation."

This little summer house was at some distance from the house, and in a
lonely corner of the orchard, raised on an artificial mount, so that
its windows should command a lovely view beyond the walls of the
grounds. It was about ten feet square--was beautifully sheltered, and
the ladies in summer took their work there, and occupied it for hours
every fine day; so it was furnished with tables and chairs, and on one
side a long couch without a back. It had already entered into my idea
that this was the spot I should contrive to get to with Mary--little
thinking how chance would throw so glorious an opportunity in my way so
soon. It was always kept locked to prevent it being used by the
servants, gardeners, or others. I knew where the key was kept, and
secured it when the ladies were dressing for their drive--so after
staying sufficiently long to prevent any suspicion, and saying then we
were going for a long walk in the country, so as to prevent them
seeking for us at the summer house if any visitors should chance to
call, we sallied out, but re-entered the grounds where we could not be
observed, and speedily gained the spot we had in view--entered and
locked the door. Then I drew down the blinds, threw off my coat and
waistcoat, and told Mary to take off her shawl and bonnet, and outer
gown.

"But why all this, Charlie, dear?"

"First, my darling--all those are in the way of kissing and toying with
your charming little Fanny, and next, I don't want anything to appear
tumbled when we go back."

This was enough, and she did everything as I desired, indeed, more, for
she took off her petticoat and little corset, saying she would be
cooler thus. So, following her example, I took off my trousers, saying
she would be better able to see and play with my doodle. When these
preliminaries were accomplished, I drew her on my knees--first pulling
up her shift and my own shirt, so that our naked flesh should be in
contact. Seeing that her chemise fell off from her bosom, I first felt
her little bubbies, which were beginning to develope themselves, and
had the tiniest little pink nipples that even my lips could hardly get
hold of. She had pulled up my shirt to look again at the great change
that had occured to my prick--of course, our preliminaries had already
excited it to a stiff-standing position.

"Oh, Charlie, what a size it is to be sure; and how nice to pull this
skin over its head; look how it runs back again. Oh! how funny!"

It was time to stop this, or she would have soon made me discharge.

"Well, then, what is this great secret, and what has it to do with your
doodle and my Fanny?"

"I will tell you, but you must never say a word to a soul--not even to
Eliza, she is too young yet."

"Well, go on."

"I was one day seeking something in the closet in Mrs. Benson's room,
when I heard them coming, and had only the time to slip into the
closet. They entered, locked the door, and Mr. B. laid her on the bed,
and lifted up all her petticoats so that I saw her Fanny quite
surrounded with hairs, as yours will be by and by. Mr. B, stooped down,
and applied his tongue as I did to you the other morning."

"Oh, yes; and it was so nice, Charlie!"

That is exactly what Mrs. B. said when he had done. Then he pulled out
his doodle, such a size, much bigger than mine, and whipped it into her
Fanny. I was quite frightened, and thought he must have killed her. But
no, it went in quite easy; and she hugged and kissed him while he
pushed it up and down for some time, till they both stopped all at
once. He then drew it out, hanging down all wet, and asked if it had
not given her great pleasure. 'Delightful,' she said. I have now got
used to it, but you know you hurt me, and made me so sore the first
time you did it.' After this they left the room, and I got away without
being discovered. But I found out what our two things were made for, we
will do as they did, so lie down on the couch whilst I kneel at the
end, and begin in the way I kissed it the other morning."

"Oh, Charlie, if it is all like that, I shall be so pleased with it."

Down she squatted, drawing up her chemise. My hand wandered all over
her charming belly and mount. Then kneeling down, and putting her legs
over my shoulders, and my hands under her thighs and bottoms, I applied
my tongue at once to her little clitoris, which I found was already
stiff, and showing its head at the upper part of her pinky slit. The
action of my agile tongue produced an instantaneous effect--her loins
and thighs heaved up her bottom to press her little pouting cunt
against my face. Mechanically she put her hand on my head, and muttered
terms of endearment--

"Oh, darling Charlie, how delicious! Oh! do go on! it is so nice, &c."

I wanted no stimulant, but licked away until, with shortened breath;
and greater heavings of her body, she began to stammer--

"Oh! oh! I feel so queer--ah, stop; I am going to faint--I, I, I,
can't--can't bear it any longer--oh!--oh!" Her limbs relaxed, and she
died away in her first discharge, which was very glutinous and nice,
but only scanty in quantity. I let her quiet until she came to; then
looking in her face, and smiling, I asked her how she liked it.

"Oh! I was in heaven, dear Charlie, but I thought it was killing me
--it was almost too much to bear--nothing could be more delicious."

"Oh, yes!" I replied, "there is something more delicious still, but, I
must kiss you in this way again before we try the other; the more moist
the inside is the easier I shall get in."

"But, Charlie, you don't mean to say you will ever get in your doodle,
now that it has grown so big."

"Well, we will try, and if it hurts you too much we can stop."

So I began again to gamahuche her; this time it took a longer effort to
produce the ultimate result; but apparently with still greater effect,
and a more copious discharge. Her little cunt being now relaxed, and
well moistened with her own discharge and my saliva, and well inclined
to receive my prick, I spat upon it and lubricated it from head to
root. Then rising from my knees, I stretched myself over Mary's belly,
and gently directing my prick, and rubbing it up and down first between
the lips, and exciting her clitoris by the same action, I gently and
gradually inserted its head between the lips of her charming little
cunt. There was less difficulty than might have been expected, the
gamahuching and double spending had relaxed the muscles, and her
passions being excited also acted on her organs of generation; at all
events, I got in the head, and about two inches of its length without
her murmuring anything beyond--

"How big it feels--it seems to stretch me so."

All this was exciting me dreadfully, and it was only by the greatest
effort that I did not thrust rudely forward. I now felt I was pushing
against some obstacle, I thrust hard and hurt her. She cried out,
begged me to stop. I was so near the finale that I felt I must go on.
So, plunging forward, I rushed, at the impediment, and made her cry out
most lustily. Probably another push would have decided my position, but
nature could hold out no longer, and I yielded down my erotic tribute
to her virginal charms, without having actually deflowered her. So far,
perhaps, it was fortunate, because I poured into her a torrent of sperm
which was not only balm to her partially wounded hymen, but so relaxed
and lubricated the interior of her cunt as greatly to facilitate my
after-efforts.

I lay quiet still for some time, and the gradual swelling out and
throbbing of my prick reawakened her young passions. She said--

"Charlie, my dear, you said that it would prove delicious in the end,
and I can feel it is becoming so. I have no more pain, and you shall go
on just as you like."

As my prick stiffened at her endearing words and involuntary pressures,
and as I had it completely under control, since I had taken the edge
off its immediate appetite by the last discharge, I held it literally
well in hand; and as I had lost no ground by withdrawing, I started
with the advantage of possession. First I slipped my hand down between
our two bellies and began frigging her clitoris, which immediately
excited her passions to the highest pitch.

"Oh! Charlie, dear, now push it all in--I do so long for it--and I
don't care how it hurts me."

I had been giving short thrusts more to stimulate her passions than to
alleviate my own; and as she was totally unaware of what was going to
happen, she widened her thighs and heaved up her bottom, expanding her
vagina in the act. I gathered my strength together, and as my cock was
standing as stiff as iron, I suddenly drove it forward, and felt that I
broke through something, and gained two inches more insertion at least.
The effect on my poor sister was most painful, she shrieked out
lustily; strove hard to unsheath me, wriggled her body in all
directions to effect this; but I was too securely engulphed for that,
and all her struggles only enabled me the more easily to sheathe him up
to the very hairs. So excited was I by her tears and screams, that I
was no sooner there than a torrent of sperm burst from me, and I lay
like a corpse on her body, but perfectly maintaining the ground I
possessed. This death-like quiet lasted some minutes, and, to a certain
extent, assuaged the violence of the pain I put poor Mary to.
Doubtless, also, the balmy nature of the ample quantity of sperm I had
shot up to her womb helped to soothe her suffering. At all events, when
we were both able again to converse, she unbraided me with the agony I
had caused her, and wished me to get off her at once; but retaining the
advantageous possession of her very tight and delicious sheath, I told
her all was now over, and we might look forward to nothing but
enrapturing pleasure.

Some minutes had elapsed in these remonstrances on one side; and
coaxings on the other, when I suddenly felt her charming little cunt
actually throb upon and give an involuntary squeeze to my prick, which
was still throbbing her. He was far too ready to stand at any time,
still more when engulphed in the exquisite young cunt he had just
initiated into love's mysteries--_bref_--he stood stiff as ever, and
Mary, at first with a shudder of fright, then with all the energy of
awakened passion, began to move her body under me. I held off from any
interference, feeling certain that if the desire came naturally to her
it would doubly enhance my own pleasure. My foresight did not fail me.
Mary's passions became fully aroused, and when so, the trifling
soreness passed out of mind, and we actually had a most delicious fuck,
in which my prick appeared as if in a vice, and Mary wriggled her
backside almost as well as the more artistic movements of Mrs. Benson.
All things must come to an end, but this did so amid screams of delight
on both sides. This single bout began and finished the education of my
darling sister. She hugged and fondled me afterwards, declaring I was
quite right in telling her pleasure followed pain; for nothing could
exceed the enrapturing nature of the sensation my prick had produced.
She thought now that it was not a bit too big, but just made to give
the utmost satisfaction. We remained locked in each other's arms, my
prick still engulphed in its tight and exciting sheath. We fondled and
prattled, until it became again in a state of violent erection, equally
stimulating her tight little cunt, so that we were forced to recommence
our love encounter. I found that my dear little sister possessed
naturally the power of throbbing on or nipping a prick, which the
French call casse-noisette. It is a great gift and adds immensely to
the man's pleasure, and I should think to the woman's too. In my
sister's case it began from the very first complete insertion of my
prick and the years that I afterwards continued to fuck her added
nothing to this delicious accomplishment, except in the variety of
positions in which it could be exercised.

The dear girl was in extasies at the pleasure she had received, and at
the pain which seemed to be past. Oh! she was so sweetly caressing that
I could not withdraw from her, and we fondled and toyed until again my
cock rose to his first vigour, and she nothing loath, began her new and
naturally taught gift of bottom upheavings and cunt pressures until
again we sank exhausted in the death-like ending of love's battles. On
recovering our senses, I was obliged to withdraw and relieve my sister
of the dead weight of my body on her person.

It has always struck me as extraordinary how the most delicate women
will support a heavy man on their persons, not only without flinching,
but even with ease and pleasure--but so it is. On rising and
withdrawing, we were both alarmed to see that my prick was all bloody,
and that blood and semen were oozing from her cunt. We had no idea this
would be the case, and at first I was as frightened as she was. A
moment's reflection showed me that it was only the natural result of
forcing my way in, and that the pleasure since enjoyed proved it to be
of no consequence. I soon convinced and calmed my sister on the
point--fortunately the sofa covering was red, and applying my
handkerchief, I wiped up all the semen mixture, and, in fact, no marks
remained; the same handkerchief wiped all results from Mary's dear
little cunt, and as her shift had been kept well up, fortunately no
stains appeared upon that.

We now ate some luncheon and drank some wine that we had prudently
brought with us. We then began playing and romping together--she
wanting always to get hold of my prick, and I to pull her about in
every way. It was gloriously warm weather, so I proposed we should off
with every thing. In a trice we were as naked as we were born, and flew
into each other's arms in a frenzy of delight, then we had a mutual
thorough inspection. My darling sister gave every promise of becoming a
magnificent woman--her shoulders were already wide--her arms well
shaped, although still thin--her waist small--the swell of the hips
already well developed--as to her bottom, it stuck out well and hard
behind, quite charming to see, and giving promise of very ample
dimensions hereafter.

I made her kneel on the low couch, with her head well up and her thighs
open; kneeling behind, I gamahuched her until she spent; then rising,
shoved my prick into her cunt, in her then position, and had a
downright good poke, which she, too, found was a way that gave her
extra excitement. We passed thus some hours in mutual delights. I
taught her the side fuck which had so charmed me with my delightful
instructress, and I found dear Mary even an apter scholar than myself
had proved. The afternoon advancing, we dressed, and eradicating all
signs of what we had been doing, returned to the house, mutually
promising to keep thoroughly secret all that had passed and agreeing
that no sign of unusual familiarity should escape us. I strongly
advised Mary to get some warm water and bathe her cunt well, for, as
may be supposed, I had taken the opportunity of teaching her the true
erotic language as applied to the organs of generation of both sexes,
and the name of the connection itself, "fucking."

Thus delightfully ended the first lesson in love taught to my sister,
and such was my first triumph over a maidenhead, double enhanced by the
idea of the close ties of parentage between us. In after-life, I have
always found the nearer we are related, the more this idea of incest
stimulates our passions and stiffens our pricks, so that if even we be
in the wane of life, fresh vigour is imparted by reason of the very
fact of our evasion of conventional laws.

We had both returned to the drawing-room for more than an hour before
the arrival of the ladies. Dear Mary complained of feeling sore and
stiff in every limb. I had advised her to lie down on the sofa and try
to sleep. I did the same, and happily we both dozed off, and never
awoke until the loud rat-tat of arrival at the house door roused us up.
I told Mary to hide all appearance of pain, and only to say, as an
excuse for going early to bed, that we had gone further afield than we
at first intended, and that she was very tired. We were both sent early
to bed, for I was still treated as quite a boy, and I was sound asleep
when my charming Mrs. B. woke me up by her warm caresses. I could well
have spared them that night, but when did one of my years not respond
to the endearments of the woman he loved, and who yielded all to him.
She sucked me dry as usual, and I slept soundly till morning.

The next three days passed without anything to record. Mary did not
allow her real soreness to appear, but heroically went through her
sufferings, for she told me afterwards she felt very severe pains all
over, doubtless her whole nervous system had been overexcited, and this
was the natural reaction; it was so far fortunate that not a shadow of
a chance of our having fresh connection occurred, so she had time to
perfectly recover from the ill effects of her first initiation into the
erotic raptures. I continued to have the relief each night of the
charming mouth of my loved and beautiful instructress. At last, the
abominable _menses_, as she called them, were past and gone. For a full
twenty-four hours after, she would not allow me to reassume all the
privileges she had previously granted, and admit me to share her bed.
She told me this was necessary to prevent any recurrence, and also that
in some cases a virulent white discharge occasionally followed for some
hours, sufficiently acrid to affect my local health, and "that," she
added, "was now too precious in her estimation to risk it in any way."
I thought it hard at the time, but it was only another proof of the
thoughtful wisdom of this estimable woman. At last, I was again in full
possession of her charming person. Oh! how we did revel in all the
luxuries and lubricity; almost every night my enchanting friend found
some new position to vary and enhance our erotic raptures. One new dose
was laying me down flat on my back, then straddling over me, she sank
on her knees, and with body erect, lifted up or rather bent back my
stiff-standing prick, until he was fairly below her open cunt, then
guiding it exactly to the proper entrance, she sank her body slowly
down upon it until fully engulphed, hair crushed hair, then as slowly
raising again, she drew off until all but the nut was uncovered, to
again sink down. In this position we could both see the whole process.
At length, becoming too excited, she sank on my bosom, then one arm and
hand pressed her splendid buttocks down on my throbbing prick after
every elevation of her magnificent backside while my other hand,
doubling round behind her, introduced the middle finger up her charming
bottom-hole, and worked in and out in unison with both our heaving
movements, until stopped by the grand crisis, when death-like langour
overcame us both almost at the same moment. I must not forget to
mention that from time to time I paid a visit to the small and rosy
orifice that lay so near to the more legitimate altar of Venus. It was
a variety of enjoyment that my lovely mistress acknowledged to me she
at times felt much inclined to enjoy, but only after having the front
path of pleasure well fucked and lubricated with sperm, which alone
caused the other mucous membrane to feel inclined that way.

I will here insert a characteristic letter from my loved mistress to
her intimate and bosom school friend, with the reply thereto. It was
several years before they were shown to me, and some time after I had
possessed _both_ the charming writers, for we all three became fast
friends; indeed, I may call myself or rather my prick, the pivot on
which their friendship turned, yet there never was the shade of
jealousy on either part, but in these remarks I am anticipating what I
may, perhaps, be hereafter tempted to describe more fully. I give these
letters now, because they immediately refer to the events I am at
present relating. They show the secret working of my loved mistress's
mind, and the voluptuous nature of her temperament, and the
satisfaction that my delicious initiation had given. Her affectionate
and flattering remarks, relating to myself, are greater than I
deserved. The following is the first letter addressed to her friend:



MRS. BENSON TO THE HON. MRS. EGERTON.



Dear Carry,

I am about to keep my promise, and give you an account of our
honeymoon. You, my dear, must be equally faithful, and reply as frankly
as I am now about to write to you.

Two giddier girls than you and I never entered the bonds of matrimony,
or more earnestly longed for the sights connected with it. Well, after
the usual breakfast, we left by rail for Leamington, where we were to
pass our first night. We had a _coupé_ to ourselves; and beyond seating
me on his knee, and kissing me, Fred behaved with much decency and
propriety. We arrived and dined. The hour between tea and bedtime was
sufficiently tedious, as both of us were naturally much preoccupied. My
husband wrote a letter to mamma, telling her of our safe arrival, and
of his intense happiness. After which he asked me if I would go to bed,
in the most matter-of-fact way imaginable. I murmured an affirmative,
scarcely knowing what to say. He rang for a candle, and told me he
would follow shortly. It seemed like a dream to me. The maid showed me
to a room containing a large four-post bedstead, heavily hung with
curtains, and provided with old-fashioned furniture.

I seated myself on the edge of the bed and began to meditate. I sat
thus, for, I dare say, ten minutes, and then commenced undressing. I
had put on my night-gown, and removed everything but my stockings, when
I heard footsteps approach the door. I opened, and my husband entered,
closed it, and turned the key. Oh! Carry, I did feel so funny. I was
undressed in a bedroom with a man, and that man had a right to my
person. He seated himself in an armchair, and drew me on his knee.
Nothing but my thin night-gown separated my bottom from his bare knee,
for he had quite undressed in an adjoining room and had nothing on but
his shirt under his dressing-gown, which flew open as he sat down. He
drew my lips to his, and kissing me, thrust his tongue between them,
while his hand first caressed and squeezed my bosom, which, you know,
is pretty full and well developed; it then wandered down upon my thigh,
pressed and felt the fleshy form. Little by little he approached my
belly, and for a moment pressed my mount. These preliminaries are at
all times exciting, but now they made me almost ill, so great was my
confusion. Seeing this, he drew up my night-gown, and placed his hand,
first on my naked thigh, then on my mount, and you know, Carry dear,
what a forest I have got there. He seemed delighted with it. His
fingers played with the silky curls, drawing them out to their full
length, so long that it appeared to surprise him, and his eyes
sparkled, and his face showed much excitement.

"Open your thighs, dearest," he whispered.

I obeyed mechanically, and his middle finger forced itself between the
lips of my cunt, and commenced rubbing my clitoris. You know, by
experience, what an excitable one it is and to what a size it developes
itself when excited. Again Fred seemed delighted with his discovery.

"Does that please you, my darling?"

"Yes," I faltered out.

He thrust his finger up my cunt, then rose up, threw off his
dressing-gown, took me in his arms, and lifted me on the bed, placing a
pillow under my head. Then letting my legs fall over the sides, he
knelt on the floor, and separating my thighs with his arms, stooped and
kissed my quim. He did more, he sucked and then licked with his tongue
my already excited clitoris. It set me on fire, and I could not avoid
showing it by the convulsive twitchings of my loins and buttocks.

"Do you like that, my love?"

"Oh! yes; so much!--so very much!"

I was nearly mad with the excitement he was putting me into. He again
stood up, and lifting my legs, his hands pressed them again and again.

"What delicious legs," he exclaimed.

I could see his shirt bulging out. He leant forward, and with his arms
under my legs, lifted them well up, and I felt a stiff thick thing
pressing against my cunt. His left hand opened the lips, his right hand
guided it between them, and a cruel push lodged its great head
completely within. Neither you, or I, Carry, were strictly virgins, our
fingers and other means had opened our vaginas to a certain extent. We
had played too many tricks together to have left our maidenheads quite
intact, so that the passage was less difficult than it might have been.
Nevertheless, it had never been penetrated by the male organ, and that
of my husband was of the largest. I experienced, therefore, a great
deal of pain, and cried out--

"Oh, my dear Fred, you hurt me dreadfully, what are you doing?"

"Doing, my darling! why, I am getting into you. Have a little patience,
and I will make you mad with pleasure."

Another determined thrust sent him halfway, and then with another,
still more violent, he lodged himself up to the hilt within. I screamed
with real pain, and struggled to free myself.

"Good heavens, sir, you are killing me; I will not endure such
treatment."

He heeded me not, but holding me fast by the thighs commenced shoving
in and out furiously. A sensitive woman never receives an insertion of
this kind with impunity. The friction began to excite feelings that
first deadened the pain of entrance, and then began to awaken the
delicious sensations of lubricity. The enjoyment I began to experience
was delicious, and I could not refrain from heaving up to meet his
thrusts.

"That is right, my angel; was I not correct in saying it would soon
turn from pain to pleasure? Do you not enjoy it now?"

"Yes; but you make me feel so funny. I don't know what--it--is."

His increased and rapid movement filled me with delight; I bounded up
and down in response to his thrusts, and felt so queer when, all of a
sudden, he gasped for breath, stopped, and I felt a greater and stiffer
swelling of his instrument, and then a gush of hot liquid dashed
against my womb, which continued running for some seconds. This, Carry,
was my first experience of what a man can do for us.

Withdrawing his huge affair--for he since admits he is larger than most
men--letting go my thighs--he pressed down upon me, and tenderly
embraced me, and said that I had behaved admirably; in future there
would be no more pain, and from what he had already experienced he felt
sure I was made for the fullest enjoyment that husband and wife could
indulge in. After a little fondling, he rose, drew off my stockings,
and helped me into bed, immediately following me. On throwing back the
clothes to enter the bed, he said he must kiss the dear little hairy
thing that had given him such pleasure. He kissed and toyed with it
admiring the profusion of hair on my mount, the whiteness and beauty of
my belly, and then, baring my breasts, admired, kissed, and sucked
them. All this not only excited me, but I could see very well it had
again caused his affair to stick out. Seeing that I was timidly
glancing at it, he seized my hand, and made me lay hold of it, showed
me how the skin covered and uncovered its head; then becoming
rampageous, he got on my belly and between my thighs, and again
introduced his cock to where it had already given such pleasure. He
still rather hurt me, and made me smart for a little while, but as the
interior was well lubricated by his former discharge, the penetration
was easily accomplished. When up to the hilt, and the two hairs were
closely joined, he paused and said--

"We will take it less impatiently this time, that my darling Bessie may
enter into all the joys of fucking, for that is what we call it my
dear; so I shall go slowly to work until my darling's passions awake
and urgently call for more rapid movements."

He did so, and gradually produced the most lascivious excitement in my
whole body. I writhed beneath him in the utmost extasy, threw my arms
round his body, and hugged him to me.

"Oh! you are an angel," he cried, "and made for enjoyment. Throw your
legs also over my back--there, that is it--and now I will hasten my
movements, and we will die away together."

Oh, the delight he gave me was inexpressibly delicious; his rapid and
eager thrusts were as eagerly met by the upheaving of my bottom to
reciprocate them. The grand crisis seized us simultaneously, and we
sank momentarily exhausted in each other's arms, leaving the dear
exciter of such joys soaking within. My dear husband was so pleased, he
kissed and fondled me in the sweetest manner, telling me that never
woman before had yielded him such intense pleasure, that nature had
prompted me to as much enjoyment as if I had been already married a
month.

We were locked closely in the warmest embrace; his tenderness and
fondling began to have its effect on my passions, and involuntarily I
made; some internal convulsive twitchings.

"I feel you, my darling, calling on my instrument for renewed efforts;
he will soon respond."

And, in fact, I felt it swelling and swelling so deliciously that I
could not help continuing the interior pressures, although feeling
confusedly ashamed of the notice my husband took of it.

"Don't be afraid, my sweetest love, but give way to whatever your
passions dictate, and thus you will best please me, and give to
yourself double enjoyment. I mean to initiate you into every secret
that the rites of Venus possess, and wish that my loved wife should
become a devoted votary, and I will do my best that she may revel in
all the luxuries of perfect coition."

We completed this course with even greater abandon than before, and I
began to enjoy his embraces beyond anything our imaginations used to
suggest. This time he withdrew and lay down by my side, and taking me
within both his arms, continued his charming endearments. I never slept
that night; I was in a fever of restless excitement. My husband fucked
me five times before he dozed off. Towards morning I tossed and
tumbled, and could not sleep. Daylight soon came, my restlessness had
shaken all the bed clothes off, except a part of the sheet, and turning
towards my husband, I perceived that the sheet stuck up over the lower
part of his body. Curiosity seized me--I looked at him, and saw he was
evidently sleeping. So gently removing the sheet, I beheld the dear
instrument of all my last night's joys as well as pains. You know how
we used to long to see man's cock when we were at school, and how, when
we did sometimes see a boy's limp thing hanging down, we used to wonder
what change would come over it, and how. Well, here was an opportunity
of examining, at my ease, the wonderful curiosity that had so puzzled
us. The last edge of the sheet passing over it touched its ruby head;
it throbbed and pulsated to the view. I was afraid this had awakened
Fred, but no, he slept as sound as ever. So I gently raised myself on
my bottom, and gazed on the dear object I had so longed to see and
feel. There it stood up like a pillar, rather bending towards his
belly: and what surprised me much was to see a dark strongly wrinkled
bag at its roots, with apparently two large balls inside; the hair on
its roots spread in dark mass up to his navel, and beautifully bright
and curling it was. I approached my lips, and made the action of
kissing, without touching it. Whether it felt my warm breath, I know
not, but it actually throbbed a response. What a great big thing it
was, equally long as it was thick, I did not think I could encircle it
with my hand; I longed to try, but was afraid I should waken Fred, and
what would he think of me, I blushed at the very idea; but my passions
became excited, and too strong to resist the temptation. So first lying
gently down again, I very quietly dropped my arm over him and touched
his cock, it throbbed at the touch, but Fred slept on. So raising
myself again, I very gently laid bold of it. It was as much as I could
grasp below the head, but was beyond my grasp at the root; I found it
took three of my hands to measure its length from the root to the nut,
which stood out in all its redness above. I was almost breathless with
excitement, and lost some of my caution. Stooping down, I gently kissed
the ruby head, when, before I knew where I was, it was pushed up into
my mouth, and my husband's voice said--

"Oh, you dear darling creature! how kind of you to waken me so
luxuriously!"

I was horrified at being discovered; and blushing up to the eyes, I hid
my face in his bosom.

"Do not be ashamed, my angel, it is now as much yours as mine, and have
you not as much right to see, kiss, and handle it? come, don't be
ashamed."

However, I could not face him, and when he tried to raise my head I
turned my back. He seized me round the waist, and, before I knew where
I was, passed a hand between my thighs, and guided his huge cock to the
lips of my cunt, and was in me, I thought further than ever, in a
moment. It is true the previous toying with his instrument had terribly
excited me, and I had felt that my cunt had become very moist, but I
had no idea that anything could be accomplished in that position. I was
most delightfully undeceived, for not only did it feel tighter in it,
but transferring his fingers from guiding his prick, he touched and
played with my clitoris, and produced such excessive lubricity that I
went off and spent with a scream of delight before he was ready; but
continuing with finger and cock to ravish me inside and out, he soon
brought me again to such a pitch of lewdness that I was quite ready to
spend with him when the grand crisis arrived. Nothing could exceed the
pleasure; my internal pressures, he declared, were the most exquisite
he had ever experienced. My clitoris, too, he declared was quite
unique. You remember how it used to stick out when excited as far as
the first thumb joint, and how, when sometimes I played the husband on
your belly, you declared that it actually entered between the lips of
your cunt, rubbed against your smaller development, and gave you great
pleasure, as indeed it gave me. My husband has often examined and
sucked it, and admires it beyond measure. At present he did not
withdraw, declaring that I held him so tight he did not think he could
pull it out if he tried. In fact, it was involuntary on my part, and I
could not help clinging to his dear instrument for the life of me.

Oh, how he fondled and embraced me, making me partially turn my body so
that he might kiss and tongue me, and then suck my bubbies; his busy
finger all the time tickling and frigging my clitoris. I soon felt his
cock swelling so deliciously within me, and he shortly recommenced his
rapturous pushings in and out. We made a long, long bout of it, and I
am sure that I spent twice before joining him at the last moment, when
he died away in a shout of joy that I feared must have been heard by
the servants in the house, who long before this had been on the move.
After this we lay soaking and enjoying it for more than half an hour,
when my husband declared he felt as if a wolf was at his stomach, and
that he must have some breakfast. He got up and quickly dressed,
desiring me to lie still, and he would bring me some breakfast in bed,
and that, while it was getting ready, he would order some warm water to
bathe myself with. I felt his delicacy, and loved him for it. The water
came, I was much refreshed after using it, and got into bed again, but
I felt awfully stiff and done up all that and next day.

My darling husband waited on me himself at breakfast, stimulating me to
eat freely as a means of restoring my lost strength; which he very soon
put to the test again, for he fucked me three times during the day, and
each time he gave me greater pleasure than before. He was just as
active at night. And the whole three weeks we stayed at Leamington, he
never fucked me less than four times a night, declaring that I had
become most perfect in the exercise.

We then came here, our old friend, Mrs. Roberts, having kindly insisted
upon our paying her a long visit Fred has been called away suddenly and
will not return for a month. I am sure you will pity me, as you know my
temperament is too hot to keep chaste so long. You remember Charlie
Roberts; you would consider him a child, but he is not so. One
afternoon Fred followed me into my bedroom, as was usual, and
gamahuched and fucked me on the edge of the bed. I was about to leave
the room after he was gone, when on opening a closet, in which my
dresses were hung, who should I discover but this same Charlie. I was
in a fix.

There was no doubt the lad had seen everything. I spoke kindly to him,
and he promised secrecy. In order to ensure it, I determined to have
his maidenhead. A few days afterwards my husband left me, and the girls
with their mamma and the governess went to town with him, leaving
Charlie to keep me company. I went upstairs with him to the
drawing-room, and seating myself in a low chair, crossed my legs
carelessly, exposing them, and letting the garter and part of the bare
skin of one thigh be visible. The effect was what I expected. I saw
Charlie's eyes fixed on the exposure, he blushed scarlet, and I could
distinctly see his cock swell out under his trousers. In a little while
I had unbuttoned them, and, oh, Carry, would you imagine it, I found he
had the cock of a man. I could scarcely believe my eyes. He is not
quite fifteen, and yet he is almost as large as Fred. Here was a
godsend, indeed! I drew up my petticoats, and the gallant little fellow
instantly fell on his knees, kissed and sucked my cunt. To reward him,
I placed him on his back on the couch, and got on the top of him. I
took his pego into my mouth, and pressed my cunt against his face, we
devoured each other with our luxurious caresses until we both spent
copiously. Nothing was lost, we both greedily swallowed all we could
get.

At home he is looked upon as still a child, and I had little difficulty
in arranging for him to sleep in a little dressing-room adjoining my
bedroom, with which there is a door of communication. He was sent early
to bed, but when I came I found him still awake, expecting me, and I
had the delicious treat of initiating him into the pleasures of
fucking. If you ever wish to enjoy _par excellence_ this pleasure, get
hold of a vigorous boy who has never had a woman. My good fortune threw
into my hands a wonderfully provided youth, whose aptitude, as well as
size and powers, it would be very difficult to match. I had already
given him several lessons in the enrapturing art when we fell asleep,
and now I must mention a little episode, which it would not do to omit.

In the morning I was dreaming of Fred, when I became conscious that
something was entering me. I was in that half-dreaming state when it is
difficult to be quite certain what is happening, but gradually I became
aware that although there was no doubt I was being entered, it was not
in the usual way. My husband had frequently of late pushed his prick up
my bottom-hole, and as he told me that all husbands did so, I could
make no objections. I, therefore, at first took it for granted that
Fred, finding my naked bottom in his lap, could not resist the
temptation of entering it. I, therefore, humoured him, and so moved my
bottom as to facilitate his complete entrance, and began to feel myself
the excitement it occasioned, but as I became wider awake, I gradually
called to mind that Fred had left me, and that Charlie was my
bedfellow. The audacity of the young rogue paralysed me, but his
delicious movements had become too nice for me to think of dislodging
him. He insisted that he was quite unconscious of his mistake, and that
he believed himself buried in the delicious grotto of the night before.
It probably was so, for so perfect an ignoramus as he is, although ever
so apt a scholar in Venus's rites, he could hardly have imagined there
could be any entrance in the smaller orifice. I let him go on, and with
his well hung cock in my bottom, and two or three fingers in my cunt,
he fucked and frigged me most deliciously, until we both spent in an
agony of pleasure. If, Carry, you have not tried this route I strongly
recommend you to do so without delay, but you must be well fucked in
the first instance, to stimulate a desire in those parts, and your
lover must be up to the art of frigging you at the same time, or you
can pass your hand under your belly, and rub your clitoris, which was
the plan I adopted with Charlie, until I taught him the art of rubbing
the clitoris properly. As there is always more excitement when this is
done by a male, it is better to have them when one can, but, _faute de
mieux_--one can do it oneself with much additional lascivious
satisfaction.

To give you an instance of the precocious aptitude of this dear little
fellow, I mounted upon him one morning, keeping my body erect, that we
might see the delicious instrument in its action of being engulphed and
then withdrawn, a most exciting pose which I recommend you to try, if
your husband has not already taught it to you. At last, overcome by the
lascivious movements, I sank on his bosom. He pressed my bottom down
with one hand, and with the other embracing the nearer buttock,
introduced his middle finger up the rosy orifice of my bottom, and
frigged me in unison with our ups and downs of fucking, giving me the
most delicious additional sensations.

What do you think of that for a _tyro_? His discretion, too, is
extraordinary. The first night after I sent him to his own bed, he
overslept himself. I had not thought of that, and had not looked into
his little room before descending to breakfast. His sister was sent to
call him. He at once excused himself by saying he had had a bad dream,
she came down and told us. In a few minutes he followed, and in the
most natural way possible, told a tale of fright, declared he had awoke
screaming and afterwards had been so frightened that he could not
sleep, and turning to me in the most natural way, hoped his scream had
not disturbed me. He never came near me, or appeared in any way
attracted by me--a discretion worthy of a man of the world. Oh! my dear
Carry, I shall make a great deal of this boy. We have had several
delicious nights since, and he improves wonderfully. Splendidly as my
husband fucks, Charley already beats him. He is quite as often ready,
indeed, oftener, and it is I that hold him back, but there is something
still so charmingly infantine in his way of caressing me, and then the
lascivious idea he is all my own, and that I initiated him in love's
mysteries, adds an inexpressible charm to our lascivious encounters. I
feel that I shall almost regret my husband's return, as it will force
me to give up this delicious indulgence. Not the slightest shadow of
suspicion of our doings is excited in the family, thanks to the very
guarded and admirable conduct of Charlie, which is above all praise.

Write to me soon, my dear Carry, and be sure you are as candid as this
long, long letter is to you, for the life of me I could not make it
shorter. I only hope you will give me one as long, and have as much
delicious intelligence for me. I know you too well to suppose that you
have not found means as I have done, to try what other men are made of,
although you can scarcely have had such wonderful luck as mine. Write
then, and write without reserve. Our mutual affection is too sincere to
allow of any concealment whatever between two such loving and lewd
lascivious friends.



Ever your affectionate friend,

E. BENSON.



Such was the long letter my adored mistress wrote at the time to her
school companion. It will be seen that their attachment had led to
something more than the usual fingerings and caressings of school
girls, indeed, had led them on to the lewdest and most lascivious
indulgences that two girls could practise in common, and had first
excited their passions and given them the delicious power of pleasing
coition they were both so perfect in, for, as I before said, about two
years after this time, I was the possessor of both and many and many an
orgy we three had together, without the shadow of jealousy on any side.
It will be seen that Mrs. Egerton, in her reply, even looks forward to
the delicious indulgence, which in the end was happily effected and
long continued. The following is her reply--



THE HON. MRS. EGERTON TO MRS. BENSON.



How can I ever sufficiently thank my darling Lizzie for her delicious
letter, I have devoured its delightful details a dozen times already. I
keep it in my bosom, and renew the pleasure of its perusal at every
spare moment. _Too long?_ Oh! with such a charming power of
description, why did you not cover fifty more pages. Never in my life
have I enjoyed such an exquisite description of those dear lascivious
encounters. How delighted I am at your good fortune in meeting with
such a miracle of a boy as that dear Charlie Roberts. Why, he has every
quality of a man, united to the charm of extreme youth. What a splendid
man he will become, the very perfection of a lover, and already
possessing so lewd and lascivious a lubricity. Oh! how I envy you his
possession. What luck for him too, to have fallen into the hands of so
delicious a teacher as my beloved Lizzie is. Am I not myself her pupil,
and were you not my own delicious instructress in all that one of our
sex could teach each the other.

You will remember a long-standing engagement entered into, between us
made, when we were both so lewd and so longing for the real knowledge
of man, and how we pledged ourselves that if either got possession of a
lover, we should manage after a while to share him between us. Your
description of Charlie Roberts has brought this pledge most vividly to
my recollection. I am sure my dear Lizzie will not be angry or jealous
when I avow that I long to participate with her in the possession of
that darling boy; and if my Lizzie is as of old, I feel certain she
will rather indulge and cultivate this propensity than otherwise. Think
how easy it will be for us both to arrange the meeting of all three
together, because I wish to possess him in common, certain that it will
increase the lascivious pleasure of coition. No one will suspect us
when we drive out, two women with one man. It will naturally be
supposed that one fears the other, and so there will be no danger. See,
here I am at once anticipating future scenes, but it is all owing to
the extremely exciting and lascivious details you have so vividly given
me.

I have no such delicious scenes to depict as those you have so
delightfully described to me. My honeymoon passed off in a much more
common-place way than yours. Our marriage, which was performed within a
day of your own, went off as such events do. My husband was loving,
without being very warm. I felt very much as you describe on going to
bed the first night, but the discretion or delicacy of my husband,
which I could well have pardoned him for dispensing with, left me time
not only to get into bed, but kept me waiting there some time. He
entered like yours in his dressing-gown, but immediately put out the
light and found his way into bed, as best he could. He crept to my side
and embraced me tenderly enough, and began to fondle and kiss me,
telling me how dearly he loved me, etc., but for some time he avoided
any indecent liberties. I suppose he thought it necessary to gain my
confidence and quiet any alarm I might be in. He might have saved
himself the trouble, for in reality I was longing for and at the same
time somewhat dreading an attack on my maiden charms. At last, little
by little, he approached the object of delight, and eventually begging
me not to be alarmed, he mounted upon me and effected the object of his
desires. He did not hurt me much, not nearly as much as I expected, nor
so much as you seem to have suffered. I deemed it politic to affect
more suffering than he really inflicted. Towards the end I had slight
scintillations of pleasure, but not worth mentioning; it is true my
husband is not so well-armed as yours and Charlie appear to be, and he
is also much colder in his passions; for instance, he did not attempt
to fuck me again, although I would have been gratified if he had done
so; perhaps it was considerate towards me in his idea, but, merely
embracing me in his arms, he talked himself and me to sleep.

In the morning he again fucked me, this time giving me something like
pleasure, but I was altogether disappointed with my night's experience.
It was not such as you or I, my dear Lizzie, had pictured to ourselves,
in our anticipations of the marriage night. My husband since has never
exceeded twice a night, but he has become more exciting, and has
generally made me spend twice to his once, first exciting my passions
by feeling all my private parts, and frigging my clitoris, so that I
generally have lubricated the passage by my own discharge before he
attempts to make an entrance. I find he likes this, and so far it
pleases me, because only one discharge would leave me in a state of
excitement unbearable. He has never attempted any of those lewder and
more lascivious methods, of which you have had such delicious
experience. Altogether, I cannot but say I am disappointed. My husband
is loving, and very anxious that I should improve my mind in every way.
You know I was rather more proficient than usual at school in Italian.
My husband speaks it fluently, and as we mean to spend a winter at
Rome, was anxious that I should have further instruction. He asked me
if my school teacher was a good one, but I did not encourage that idea.
You may remember our former master was a Count Fortunio, so handsome
and so enterprising that you and I had both formed the plan of having
him, and had already put over some of the preliminaries when,
unfortunately, he was caught with that impudent Miss Peace, with whom,
doubtless, he had accomplished everything. Of course, he was instantly
changed for another, and we saw no more of him, to the sad
disappointment of our then libidinous hopes. My husband proposed
advertising for a master, when I had the happy instinct to tell him
that schoolmistresses generally applied to Rolandi, of Berner's Street,
for language masters, and that, if he would write or call, he would be
sure to get every information. That evening, after dinner, as we sat
dozing over the fire in the library--very imperfectly lighted--my
husband informed me that he had seen Rolandi, who had most strongly
recommended a very gentlemanly man, moving in good society, namely, the
Count Fortunio. I started in amazement; fortunately, owing to the
half-light we were in, my surprise and confusion were unnoticed by my
husband. He said that he had been referred to one or two gentlemen of
standing as to the Count's character, that he called upon them, and
felt satisfied that I could not be in better hands. You may imagine
what an effect this information had upon me. All night long I could
think of nothing else. What seemed most difficult to me was the hiding
from my husband our previous knowledge of each other. I feared the
Count would at once recognise me and claim acquaintance, which was what
I most wished to avoid; to you, from whom I have no secrets, I may own
it immediately occurred to me that this would be an opportunity (for
which I had in heart been longing) of obtaining the services of a lover
I could trust. How to manage it I knew not, but chance, that favourer
of all wrongdoers, stood me in good stead.

My husband had intended to be present to receive the Count.
Fortunately, a letter arrived in the morning requiring his instant
attendance in the City about the sale of some stock, of which he was
trustee. He begged me to see the Count, and arranged as to hours of
attendance, &c., the more frequently the better. I felt my
embarrassment was at an end; the next thing was to avoid letting the
servants, those domestic spies on our conduct, see the first meeting.
There was a small room off our drawing-room that had no door but the
opening into the drawing-room; this was fitted up as a sort of boudoir
writing-room, and my husband had pointed it out as a convenient place
for me to take my lessons in. Here, therefore, I posted myself, and
awaited the hour of arrival, to which he was punctual. He was announced
and I told the servants to show him in. I sat purposely with my back to
the entrance, apparently engaged in writing, as if I did not know he
had approached, until I heard the door of the drawing-room shut. I then
rose, turned, and smilingly held out my hand. He started with surprise,
but immediately and gallantly kissed the hand held out to him.

"I hope you are not disappointed in finding who is going to be your
pupil."

"Oh, no, certainly not; I did not know you under your married name; but
I am so happy to renew an acquaintance which at one time had such
charming promise."

"Stop, signor, I am now married, and it is necessary to be very
cautious. I do not wish to deny that I am much pleased to renew
acquaintance with you, but it must be with great reserve. Sit down by
my side, and be reasonable."

"Reasonable! and by the side of one whom I so much loved, and from whom
I had such hope. Oh! dear Mrs. Egerton, you are surely not going to
treat me as a mere master. You would render me miserable if you did so.
How can I help admiring one whom I so fondly loved, and with whom I
hoped for such happiness long ago."

Here, having possession of my hand, his other arm was passed round my
waist, and he drew me to his lips, and I must own, I reciprocated the
ardent kiss he gave me. You remember how handsome he is, and how soft
and loving was the expression of his eyes. Well, my dear, to cut
matters short, I was so excited that I hardly observed that he had
passed his hand up to my petticoats, until I found he had got it on my
mount. My passions being excited, and knowing that my husband could not
return, and also that he had given strict orders that I was not to be
disturbed in my Italian lessons, I gave way unreservedly to the
excitement the Count raised. Before I well knew where I was, he was on
his knees in front of the low chair on which I was seated. He had
thrown up my petticoats, and I felt a long and extremely hard prick
rush up my cunt, and begin the most lively action. In fact, he carried
me (not unwillingly I must avow) by storm, and made haste to secure the
fortress at once, so that I had a very quick fuck, that did not assuage
the fire he had raised within me. He has since apologised for his
haste, saying that he wished to secure possession of me before I could
think of resistance, so as to ensure more facilities of connection
hereafter. We had no lesson in language that day, but another bout of
love, in which he did his utmost, and with perfect success, to give me
the most delicious enjoyment.

In fact, my dear Lizzie, I may say it was the first fuck that
thoroughly realised my, or rather our, anticipations of the act. We
arranged the line of conduct necessary to be followed so as neither to
compromise me or him either. In a short time we had again a delicious
fuck. Seated, with outstretched legs, on a chair, he got me to straddle
over him, and sink down on his stiff upstanding prick. I have tried
this position kneeling, with my husband on his back; but it does not
equal the chair fuck. One has so much better a spring from one's feet
than from one's knees, besides, the man is brought more face to face,
and there is more facility for mutual embracings; but both ways have
their charm. I had repeatedly observed that the Count apparently lost
his place, and on recovering it, partially penetrated the smaller
orifice, which you so picturesquely describe. I thought it accident,
and as it hurt, I always put him back, and joked him on his
awkwardness. But after I read your dear delightful letter. I became
convinced that he had a wish to penetrate there, without the courage to
tell me so.

I must confess to you, that our stolen embraces at home had become too
unsatisfactory, and the Count had arranged for a private house to be at
our disposal. Of an afternoon I drove out shopping, called at Swan and
Edgar's in Regent Street, leaving the carriage at the door, walked
upstairs, made some trifling purchase, paid for and left it until I
should call in an hour; then descending by another staircase, left by
the Piccadilly entrance, and taking a cab, joined my expectant lover,
where he was waiting for me. There stripping perfectly naked, we
enjoyed each other most lasciviously, and practised every act of
lubricity. When satiated with our efforts, a second cab conducted me to
St. James's passage, in Jermyn Street, from whence I gained on foot
Swan and Edgar's in Piccadilly, received my parcel, and rejoined my
carriage. Thus no suspicions were excited, either in the household or
otherwise.

We have met thrice since your dear delicious letter fired my
imagination, and I have seized the occasion to taste the sweets of the
neighbouring altar to Venus's legitimate one. After the Count had
fucked me twice I turned my back as if wishing it in a way we often
enjoyed it, but took care to place my bottom in such a position that
the smaller orifice was nearest to his standing prick. Whether he saw
my drift I know not, but finding with his finger how conveniently it
lay, he plunged boldly forward, and half sheathed himself at the first
push. I started with the sudden pain, and should have disengaged myself
at once, notwithstanding that I purposely placed myself to receive his
prick in my bottom-hole, but with his arms round my waist I was
perfectly powerless, and another thrust sent him up to the hilt, but
really hurting me most sensitively; I begged him to desist and
withdraw, but he said--

"I will remain quite quiet for a time, and you will see that your pain
will diminish, and then you will like it."

I could not help myself, and sure enough he was right. Shortly I felt
no pain; slipping one hand down, he began to frig my clitoris, and in a
little time, finding by the involuntary movements of my loins that my
passions were excited, he began to move very slightly and slowly. I
soon found a strange excitement seize me, which increased to such a
degree that I almost fainted, when my nature gave down its divinest
essence. We have since repeated the new experience, but I quite agree
with you in thinking that we must be well fucked first.

The Count is a master of his weapon, which, neither quite so long as
you describe your husband's nor nearly so thick at the point, is very
much so at the root, and as stiff and hard as iron. I assure you, the
wild excess of passion he drives me into is indescribable. You shall
experience the delight of his fucking, for, with you and me, there must
be no difficulty, diversion, nor jealousy. Nay, I shall try to seduce
your husband, with a view to cover our delinquencies. I would offer you
mine, but, truly, he is not worth having to a woman who can find
better, as my dear Lizzie so charmingly does. We have managed matters
so prudently that my husband has taken a great fancy to the Count, and
he dines frequently at our house.

We have often talked of you. I told him of your marriage, and of a
probability of your eventually settling in London. I marked the sparkle
of his eyes at the news, but was silent as to your letter and
adventures. It is better we should manage the affair between us when
you are here.

So you see, after all, I have not come off so badly, although, I must
say, tamely in comparison with the delicious adventures of my dear and
charming Lizzie. I think, when we meet, we shall be able to get up
parties of the most delightful kind. I even hope we may induce the
Count to join you and Charlie in a _partie carrée_; what fun and
pleasure we should have, and then the delight of exchanging lovers at
each bout. Oh! the very idea has set me on fire; fortunately, I am
expecting my lover at every moment. I will close my letter with this
lascivious picture, and in hopes of some day realizing it with my loved
Lizzie, Whose most affectionate and attached friend,



I shall ever remain,

CARRY EGERTON.



Such were these two charming letters, and I may immediately mention now
that the lascivious picture dear Carry drew of a _partie carrée_--we
four the actors--was afterwards realised to the utmost extent of every
salacious enjoyment that the most experienced lubricity could suggest.

The Count and I often sandwiched them between us, which they declared
to be the _ne plus ultra_ of pleasure, while the upper operator
gamahuched the unoccupied quim. Nay, these giddy delicious creatures
were not satisfied until they had induced us to alternate the joys of
coition with each other; but that was rarely the case. These enchanting
women were so exquisitely seductive that, while we had them at our
disposal, we sought no other source of delight. But I am digressing,
and talking of events that occurred long after the period which I am
more particularly describing.

The three weeks' absence of Mr. Benson terminated, alas, far too soon;
in fact, time flew so quick that it hardly appeared three days when a
letter arrived announcing his return for the next day. My heart was
ready to burst, but I managed to make no show or mention when Mrs. B.
told the news at breakfast Mrs. B. observed that I turned pale, but no
one else remarked anything. We contrived to meet for a short time in
the middle of the day, and she embraced me tenderly, with tears in her
eyes, and looking so loving that my passions became overexcited, and
hers too. Notwithstanding the imprudence of the risk, we there and then
had a most delightful and salacious fuck; and at night this charming
woman allowed me full liberty to do anything I liked; and as often as
nature would support us we revelled in a sea of lubricity. How often I
cannot say, although my loved mistress declared that I had spent ten
times, I am certain she did oftener than that, for neither closed an
eye, nor ceased from the most loving embraces. She exerted all the
wonderful powers of seduction for which she was so distinguished. Never
mortal man could have passed a more intoxicating night of pleasure. We
heard movements in the house before we parted with mutual tears
coursing down our cheeks.

It was with difficulty I tore myself from her; indeed, I could not have
done so if she had not herself risen, and tenderly embracing me, told
me to have courage and hope, for, some how or other, we should manage
an occasional interview. Particularly cautioning me to be perfectly on
my guard when her husband came, she said it would be better if I kept
out of the way until after the first interview was over, as it might he
too much for me to see him embrace her. I did as she desired. No one
noticed me in the confusion of his arrival.

Mamma had insisted upon my returning to my bed in her room, as she was
sure Mr. Benson would require the dressing-room. Mrs. B., from policy,
objected, saying that there was no occasion, that I had been so quiet
she had never once been conscious of my being there, &c., but mamma had
her own way, and I really believe very much to the satisfaction of Mrs.
B. herself; for I doubt, if Mr. B. had been aware of my close
proximity, whether he would altogether have liked it. Nevertheless, he
so completely treated me as little more than a child that I am quite
sure he had no suspicion of my having occupied his place so
continuously during his absence.

Mr. and Mrs. B. retired shortly after his arrival, doubtless to plunge
into all the joys of venery after his long absence, and his wife's
supposed privation of them. The idea of that being the case did not so
much annoy me as I expected; on the contrary, imagination portrayed
them in all the agonies of delight, and actually excited me extremely.
All at once, the idea struck me that I might be purposely hid in the
closet, behold all their delicious encounters, and when he had left his
wife to put herself to rights, and the key was turned upon him, I might
then in my turn, fly into my enchanting mistress's arms, and revel in
all the joys her well moistened and juicy cunt could give. I determined
to propose this to dear Mrs. Benson the first moment I could get her
apart from all observation.

I was a little _distrait_ in the school-room that day, but an appeal
from Miss Evelyn recalled me to my senses. She asked me what I could be
thinking of; I held down my head and blushed. Already an adept in
dissimulation, I faltered out that it was of herself and of her
endearing caresses the day before, which had made me feel so queer all
over. In fact, the previous day she had hugged me rather close to her,
and kissed me more lovingly than usual, which really had, at the time,
inflamed my desires, and given me great hope of matters coming to a
more satisfactory termination with her. She patted my check, and kissed
me again, saying I was a naughty boy to have any such thoughts, and I
must not indulge in them, or she would not love me any more. But there
was a sparkle in her eye, and a flush on her cheek, which showed me she
was anything but displeased.

At our usual break-up at four o'clock, I went to the parlour to see if,
by chance, I could get a secret word with Mrs. B., but found that she
and her husband had again retired. I knew what that meant; it set me
too on fire, and I flew to the garden where my sisters had gone to
play. I gave Mary a hint, which she readily understood, and proposed a
game of hide and seek. To prevent Eliza interrupting us, I took up a
stone, which I furtively dropped again, and proposed that Eliza should
guess first, in which hand I had got it, and if she guessed wrong she
was to be the seeker. Of course, she guessed wrong. So we bound up her
eyes, and she was to stand behind a tree and count one hundred before
she attempted to look for or seek us. We made a detour, and as fast as
we could run reached the summer house, which, as all the ladies were in
the house occupied, I knew to be untenanted. We entered and locked the
door, in an instant I had Mary down on her back on the sofa, my head
between her thighs, and my tongue in her cunt, and then on her
clitoris. She was as eager for it as myself. A week had passed since
the happy day of giving up her maidenhead to me. She had thoroughly got
over all the pains and inconveniences of that day, and was as ready for
a renewal of what could only be joys now as I was. She spent in my
mouth almost as soon as I began to gamahuche her clitoris. Waiting an
instant to lick up and swallow the soft and delicious young discharge,
I rose, pulled out my bursting prick, and engulphed it in her
well-moistened sheath with one rapturous shove up to the hilt,
positively taking away her breath by the energy of the attack. I was
almost as rapid in coming to a conclusion as she had been.
Nevertheless, she died away a second time, the moment she felt the warm
gush of my raging discharge. We lay some minutes rapt in the lascivious
lap of lubricity. But in our young and unbroken energies, nature soon
reasserted her power. I must give my sister the palm. It was the
internal pressures of the inner folds of her deliciously tight cunt
that first awakened my vigour. Somewhat more slowly we began another
love encounter, which speedily became much more rapid and energetic,
ending as usual in an extasy of delight, and closing with actual cries
of intense pleasure.

It was well we had completed our second course, for we heard the
footsteps of Eliza, who, after in vain searching for us near to where
we had left her, had at last sought us in the summer house. I had just
time to arrange my trousers and unlock the door when she arrived and
burst in upon us. She said it was unfair to go so far away, but we only
laughed, and proposed that Mary should now seek us. We were standing
outside below the mound, tying on the handkerchief, when Miss Evelyn
was seen approaching. She came up and noticed the flush still on Mary's
cheeks, but we at once told her that we had been playing at hide and
seek, and had had a good run, and that it was now Mary's turn to be the
seeker. However, Miss Evelyn said she thought we had had enough
exercise for the time, and that it would be better to walk gently about
to get cool, as it only wanted a few minutes of the hour for renewing
our lessons, so we all demurely returned to the house. A reflection
struck me that it would be necessary to initiate my sister Eliza in our
secrets, and although she might be too young for the complete insertion
of my increasingly large cock, I might gamahuche her while fucking
Mary, and give her intense pleasure. In this way we could retire
without difficulty to spots where we should be quite in safety, and
even when such was not the case, we could employ Eliza as a watch, to
give us early notice of any one approaching. It will be seen that this
idea was afterwards most successfully carried out to the immense
increase of my pleasure.

It was a lovely summer evening. After dinner Mr. B., who, doubtless,
had no longer any amorous longing, after having twice retired during
the day, challenged Miss Evelyn to a game at chess, of which she was a
great proficient. Mamma, Mrs. B., and the two girls stepped out into
the flower garden, to enjoy the beauty of the evening. Fortunately
mamma fancied she felt chilly, and shortly went back again, taking the
two girls with her, and setting Mary down to the piano. I seized the
happy moment, and drew Mrs. B. to a seat, far removed beyond the
hearing of any listeners, but in sight of the windows. There I unfolded
to her the plan I had proposed to myself; she smiled at my precocious
ingenuity, but added it would not be safe to leave the closet door
open, even partially, as by chance Mr. B. might open it, and that would
never do; but she might lock me in--or rather I might do so from the
inside.

"Ahh! but then I want to see it all--it is so exciting to see Mr. B.
working into that divine body of yours."

She laughed heartily at my remark, and said I was a lewd lascivious
young rascal--adding:

"But are you not jealous to see another in possession of me?"

I admitted that that was my first impression, but on thinking over it,
I had become convinced I should like her and enjoy her all the more
lasciviously if I were a witness to their love contests, but I must be
able to see them.

"Well! can you not bore a couple of holes an inch and a half apart,
below the middle panel and cut a narrow slit from hole to hole? I will
take care to place myself in a proper position, and do my best to
gratify your premature lubricity. My darling boy, you progress
wonderfully, and make me proud of my pupil."

Seeing she took it thus kindly, I said--

"Do tell me, my beloved mistress, how often he has fucked you to-day?"

"Will it please you really, my dear Charlie, to know that?"

"Oh! yes, so much."

"Well, then, six times in the morning, and four before dinner. He was
bursting with desire, and could not hold. He spent twice before giving
me time to come once, but then you know, my dear Charlie, how actively
you had been employing your time all the previous night, you sad rogue
that you are."

"Did you enjoy it much, my dear Mrs. B.?"

"Why, if I must tell you, you little curiosity box, I did; you know how
powerfully my husband is hung, and loving him as I do, it is impossible
to undergo his powerful and lascivious embraces without feeling all
one's libidinous passions stirred up within me, but even while in his
possession, my dear boy, I thought of your young charms, and the fierce
delights we had enjoyed together last night. My husband little imagined
it was of you, not him, that I was thinking and stimulating myself to
wild upheavings of voluptuous movements, while he was revelling in all
the lubricity of his own passions, and fucking me to my heart's
content."

"Oh! how delicious! my angelic mistress," I cried, "the pleasure of
your vivid description almost makes me faint with desire--oh! that I
could possess you at once."

"You must not think of that, my dear darling boy. We must manage it
to-morrow; I shall go into the house at once, and occupy your mother's
attention, do you get a gimlet and chisel, slip up at once to my
bedroom, and prepare a peep-hole for to-morrow; be careful to put it
low down, below the projection of the middle panel of the door in which
the lock is placed, and take care to remove the pieces of wood you take
out. I shall put the key inside of the door. Your sisters always take
two hours at the piano after your midday meal, our luncheon is served
at the same time. Mr. B. is sure to require my attendance in my room
after that, but I shall detain him by some excuse till I observe that
you have disappeared, and after giving you sufficient time, we shall
follow, and you shall have the extraordinary satisfaction you require;
but above all remember--not a movement to betray yourself until my
husband leaves and I have locked the door behind him." So saying, she
pressed her lovely hand on my stiffly excited member, rose and joined
mamma. I lost no time in following her advice, and happily executed all
I wanted, and returned unconcernedly to the drawing-room, without my
absence having occasioned any remark Next day I got safely to my
hiding-room, and had comfortably stowed myself away in such a position
that the opening I had made was on a level with my eyes, before they
arrived. She, dear creature, anticipating my vista, had merely slipped
on a dress, without a corset, and told her husband that he was so
insatiate that she was obliged to be ready at a moment's notice to
satisfy his inordinate passion, so she had only to take off her gown to
be at her ease. "Most admirable, my darling wife, but drop off every
thing, and let me contemplate, at my ease, all the beauties of your
exquisite body."

No sooner said than done, and my lovely mistress stood in all the glory
of her magnificent and beautiful naked form. He kissed and fondled her
from head to foot, laid her on the bed and gamahuched her till she
squealed again with pleasure. Then pulling out his magnificent prick,
he plunged it into her delicious cunt at a single bound, evidently
giving her the most exquisite delight, as was evidenced by the
instantaneous clasping of him with her arms and legs, and the rapid
wriggling of her backside. They soon ran a first course, but Mr. B.
remained engulphed in the closely fitting sheath of his salacious wife.
She evidently exerted herself more than usual, both for her own
pleasure as well as to give satisfaction to me, for once when she
turned her head in my direction I caught her eyes, and she smiled,
giving a still more vigorous heave than usual, and showing me all her
cunt at full stretch with the noble prick in it. I was ready to burst.
At last their bout was over for the present; Mr. B. withdrew his prick,
all slimy from its sheath, pendant, but still full of size.

Most extraordinary! I would have given a good deal to have dared to
rush out, put it in my mouth and suck it dry, I can hardly describe how
strongly this desire took possession of me. It was the first promptings
of a passion I have since often indulged in, where I have met with
companions with whom I could join in orgies of both sexes. Mrs. B.
professed to be dead beaten by the constant and frequent renewals of
these interviews in addition to night work and lay perfectly still,
while he performed his ablutions and readjusted, his habiliments.

"Fasten the door after me." said he, as he ardently pressed her form in
his arms and kissed her. She had continued stretched on the bed,
exactly facing me, with legs widely extended, so as to show me the
whole of her lovely cunt, which I could see still panted under its late
excitement. My charming mistress told me it was palpitating not for
what had passed, but for what it was waiting for. She rose at last and
closed the door, turning the key upon her husband. She then approached
the bidet to purify herself, but I bounded from the closet, seized her
in my arms, dashed her back on the bed and immediately glued my lips to
her glowing and foaming cunt, with all the froth and spending of her
husband oozing out. I greedily devoured it, and raised her to such a
frenzy of lewdness that she dragged me up and cried, frantically--

"For God's sake fuck me--fuck me!"

Of course my cock was bursting to do so; with one shove he was sheathed
to the cods; my loved mistress spent with that alone, so highly was she
excited, not only by the preparations, but as she herself acknowledged
to me, by the idea of the instantaneous infidelity to her husband, at
the moment after he had just fucked her--such is the wild imagination
of women when they give way to every libidinous thought. It would have
been exactly the same if some equally fortunate lover had been awaiting
my retiring from the field. The idea of success in deception is a
passion with them, and they would almost sacrifice any thing to obtain
it. Before I could arrive at the grand crisis, she was again ready, and
we died away in an agony of blissful lubricity--she held me, as usual,
so tight that I never thought of withdrawing from the folds of her
delicious cunt, but lay still enjoying the never ceasing compressions
of its velvety folds, which sometimes really had almost the force of a
vice. I was rapidly ready for a second bout, which, like the first,
ended in extatic joys, beyond the power of description. My charming
mistress thought I ought now to desist, but pleading my forty hours'
fast (for, of course, she knew nothing of my fucking Mary), I begged
her to allow me to run one more course.

"Then, my darling Charlie, you must let me turn on my side, for I am so
heated with your weight and my husband's that I must have some relief,
but there is no occasion for you to withdraw, leave me to manage it."

With an art quite her own, she accomplished her object, her splendid
buttocks' pressing before my eyes against my belly fired me
immediately. My cock swelled and stood firm as ever. Then passing an
arm round her body, I used my fingers on her excited and stiffly
projecting clitoris. We had a much longer and more voluptuous fuck than
before; nothing could exceed the delicious movements of my divine
mistress; she twisted her body so, that I could suck one of her
bubbies, while I fucked and frigged her; she spent with such a scream
of delight that I am sure she must have been heard in the house, had it
not been for the inner baize door to the room. She continued throbbing
so deliciously on my prick that I began to flatter myself I should
obtain a fourth favour, but she suddenly bolted out of my arms and out
of bed. Turning round, and taking my whole prick into her mouth, and
giving it a voluptuous suck, she said--

"No, my loved boy, we must be prudent if we mean to have a repetition
of these most exquisite interviews. You have given me most extatic
pleasure, and by moderation, and running no risk in too long indulgence
of our passions, we may safely manage to enjoy similar interviews every
day. Get into the dressing-room, remain there until I leave my room and
pass your door. After I have seen that no one is near, I will cough
twice, wait a minute longer, then quietly leave and descend by the back
stairs."

All was happily effected, and for the week longer they remained with
us, I found means to repeat the charming lesson every day, without
raising suspicion in any one's mind.

At last this admirable woman departed. It was with difficulty I could
bear the scene, but I gulphed down my feelings as best I could. She had
become a universal favourite, and all regretted her leaving, so that my
distress was not noticed in the general regret. It was more than two
years before fortune favoured me in again meeting with this charming
woman. And then we saw very much of each other, both alone and with
other congenial spirits, of which, perhaps, I may hereafter write a
detail; but at present I have got events to relate that followed fast
on her departure.

I have said that Miss Evelyn had been gradually growing more familiar
in her manner of partially caressing me. She drew me closer to her,
almost invariably placing her arm round my waist, frequently kissing
and pressing me against her firm and well-formed bosom. This had
frequently an evident effect on my lower person, even while I was kept
less excitable by the constant relief my passions were obtaining in the
arms of my adored Mrs. B. Now I no longer had that vent, for the little
relief I could get at rare intervals from my sister Mary was as
nothing, after the constant exercise I had been provided with for a
whole month. Ever since I had practised that little deception on Miss
Evelyn by attributing to her embraces the evident distraction I was in
on the day of Mr. Benson's return, she had increased her pressures of
my person, and could not but feel my stiff prick throbbing against her
thigh, while she closely pressed my body against it with her arm. I
often noted the increased sparkle of her eyes and changes of colour on
her face when she kissed me, and I put up my hand and caressed her
cheek. At times she would push me suddenly away, and beg me to resume
my seat; frequently she would quit the room in an agitated manner, till
this led me to suppose that an internal conflict was going on, and that
passion urged one course, reason another. Remembering the sage advice
given to me by my loved and beautiful mistress, Mrs. B., I resolved to
play the part of an innocent ignoramus, and let her own passions
develope and produce the result I so longed for. I doubt if I could
have held out but for the relief I found in dear Mary's embraces, who,
each time we could manage to meet, became more and more attractive, and
more capable of giving and receiving pleasure. We had some difficulty
in keeping Eliza blind to our doings. At last Mary agreed to initiate
her into gamahuching, and to tell her I did so to her when we shut
ourselves up together, and that if she would keep the secret, I would
do the same to her; but that it was necessary that one should keep
watch while the other amused herself with me, for fear Miss Evelyn
should chance to come. Mary proceeded to gamahuche her, which delighted
Eliza beyond measure; indeed, although a year and a half younger, she
speedily showed a developement of passion superior to Mary. At first I
only gamahuched her, letting her play with my prick as I did so, but
not attempting to instruct her in the art of insertion into her
charming little quim, which already showed symptoms of a hairy growth
on her well-formed and very prominent mount. When I had done enough in
this way, Mary, who had previously been fucked by me, returned, and
Eliza took up the watch, while I appeased in Mary's deliciously tight
cunt the thirst that gamahuching Eliza had raised.

It was thus I could more coolly await the gradual approximation that
Miss Evelyn's evident passion for me was bringing about. That she
struggled against it was evident, but passion was gaining the
advantage, as was shown by her nervous tremblings and sudden clutches,
drawing me up to her parched lips, and sometimes pushing me away with a
shudder that shook her frame and paled her lovely cheeks. I fancied
that nature had been too much for her on these occasions, and that in
reality the sudden clutching was the approach of love's crisis, and
that when she shuddered, and suddenly repulsed me, she was discharging.
It was evident this could not continue. At last the happy day for which
I so longed arrived. Mamma was going to go to the town, and taking my
two sisters with her, to get something or other for them. She invited
Miss Evelyn to accompany her, but the latter declined, on the excuse of
an alleged headache. In truth, the violent nature of the conflict going
on between her passions and her prudence had visibly affected her
health; she had become pale and anxious-looking, and my mother was
somewhat uneasy about her. She told her not to occupy herself too much
with my lessons that day, and only give me work for an hour in the
morning and an hour in the afternoon, and begged her to take a quiet
stroll in the garden, and rest as much as possible.

On leaving us, she cautioned me to be as gentle and obedient as
possible, as Miss Evelyn was poorly and out of spirits. Mamma and the
girls departed. Miss Evelyn, almost as pale as death, and quite visibly
trembling, falteringly begged me to go to our school-room and study the
lesson she had given me the previous evening, saying she would join me
shortly. I went, but no lesson could I do that day. The evident
agitation and apparent illness of Miss Evelyn distressed if not alarmed
me; I was still too inexperienced in her mind. It was a phase of
woman's nature which I had as yet no knowledge of. I had merely a vague
kind of idea that it all tended to the ultimate gratification of my
libidinous hopes, and I only held off to a certain extent in obedience
to the counsel my loved Mrs. Benson had so wisely impressed upon me,
and was waiting in lively, hopes of the result I so ardently wished for.

At last Miss Evelyn joined me, her eyes were swollen and red as if she
had been weeping; my own filled with tears when I saw her, and I
approached, hesitatingly, and said--

"Oh, my dear governess, I am so grieved to see you look so poorly. Oh,
do nothing to-day, and I promise to work twice as hard to-morrow."

At the moment I really felt quite distressed at the sad expression of
her features. For an instant she smiled languidly, then, by some
compulsion of feeling, she seized me in both arms and drawing me to her
bosom, covered me with kisses; her eyes became almost perfectly
brilliant.

"Oh, you dear, dear, darling boy, I love you beyond expression. Kiss,
oh, kiss me! my darling! and comfort me, because I love you all too
well."

Then, again, there was a change, she seemed to fear she had said too
much, and turned away her head and tears started to her eyes, but her
arms did not relax the embrace in which she held me. I was deeply moved
at her evident agitation. I thought she was really ill, and suffering
greatly; so I threw my arms round her neck, kissing her tenderly, and
weeping myself, tried to comfort her in my inexperienced way, sobbing
out--

"Oh, dear, dear Miss Evelyn, do be comforted, I so dearly love you that
it makes my heart bleed to see you so unhappy. Oh, let me see you
smile, and do try not to cry so. Why are you so unhappy and low
spirited? Oh, that I could do anything to make you happy?" And
redoubling my endearments, she again turned her lovely face to me.
Again there was the unnatural fire in her eyes, and a hectic glow
flushed her cheek.

"You darling angel of a boy; it is you that makes me so unhappy."

I started back in surprise.

"I make _you_ unhappy! Oh! Miss Evelyn, how can that be, when I adore
the very ground you stand on, and love (_sobbing_)--love (_sob_)--love
you more than anything in the world."

She seized my head in her two lands, glued her lips to mine, gave me a
long, long kiss of love; then, pressing me to her bosom--

"Oh, say that again, my loved, my darling boy; it is the love I feel
for you that is breaking my heart, but I can resist it no longer. Will
my Charlie love his Evelyn always as he does now?"

"Oh, how could I do otherwise? I have worshipped you from the first
moment of your arrival, and have had no other idea. What can I do to
prove it--try, oh, try me. I have never breathed a syllable of my love
for you, even to yourself, let alone other people."

Her eyes, sparkling with passion, were searching the depths of mine, as
if to fathom my thoughts. I, too, began to feel my amorous passions
excited by her warm embraces and kisses. She held me tight to her body,
and could not help feeling the hard substance that jutted out against
her.

"I believe you, my Charlie, and will trust you with my life--with more,
with my honour! I can no longer resist my fate. But, oh! Charlie, love
me always, for I run a fearful risk in loving you as I do."

She again drew me to her lips, my hands clasped her neck in a close
embrace. Her hands wandered--pressed upon my throbbing prick. With
trembling and hasty fingers she unbuttoned, or rather tore open, my
trousers, and her soft fingers clasped my naked instrument.

"Oh, I shall die, dear Miss Evelyn; what must I do to make you happy?"

My apparent ignorance could not but please her. She sank back on the
long low chair on which she was seated, apparently accidentally drawing
up her petticoats with her hand in falling back. I threw myself on my
knees, and pushing her petticoats further up disclosed the rich, dark,
curly beauty of her mount. She covered her burning face with her hand,
while, pressing my head forward, I began pressing her beauteous cunt,
sucking it without daring to lick her clitoris. She tried to push me
away--"No! no! I must not."

But I suppose my proceedings fired her passions still more, for she was
quite moist and juicy, and I have no doubt had already had one
discharge while embracing me so warmly. She suddenly said--

"Come then, my loved boy, and I will be all in all to you."

Drawing me up--nothing loath--I was soon extended on her belly, with my
stiff-standing cock pressing against her cunt. I had still the prudence
not to show any knowledge of the act. I sighed deeply--

"Oh! my loved Miss Evelyn, do help me, I know not what to do."

Her hand glided down between us, she guided my glowing instrument
between the longing lips of her delicious cunt. I pushed, and buried
the head and two inches of its body at the first thrust. The second
brought it against an unexpected obstacle, for it never had struck me
that Miss Evelyn was a virgin. I pushed hard at it.

"Oh, Charlie, love, be gentle, you are hurting me very much."

Knowing that the best way would be to excite her by short shoves,
without at first trying to go further, I did so, and she began to feel
all the raging desires that so formidable a prick as mine must excite,
when moving between the soft velvety folds of her tight and juicy quim.
I held myself in, and continued my proceedings until the convulsive
movements of her loins, and the increased pressure of the folds of her
cunt, showed me that the crisis was approaching, and she was about to
spend. She hugged me close in her arms, and at the moment of spending
involuntarily heaved up her bottom. This was the very moment I was with
difficulty waiting for. I retired a little and plunged forward with
irresistible force. I burst my way through every barrier, up to the
very roots of my prick. The attack was as painful as unexpected. Miss
Evelyn gave a shriek of agony and swooned away. I at once improved the
opportunity, and thrusting in and out with the utmost vigour, broke
down every obstacle, and enlarged the opening by side movements as much
as possible, while she was insensible to the pain. I then died away
myself in an agony of delight. I lay soaking within the delicious
sheath until her convulsive shudders and short sobs showed that my now
fully deflowered mistress was recovering her senses. The thought of the
unexpected victory I had won had already begun to make my cock stand
again, although it was still comparatively soft. I could feel an
involuntary pressure on it, as she came to a full consciousness of our
position. She threw her arms round my neck, gave me a most impassioned
kiss, and then sobbed and cried as if her heart would break.

It is a curious idiosyncracy of my nature to be most libidinously
excited by a woman's tears, and although I really suffered to see her
in such grief, it stiffened my prick to its utmost dimensions. I tried
to comfort her with words, but she sobbed, sobbed on. I suddenly
thought that a renewal of action might bring about a revulsion of
feeling, and began vigorous movements. She sighed deeply, but I could
tell by the nervous twitchings of her loins that her passions were
being excited. They soon decided the contest. She threw her arms round
my waist, and pressed me to her, devouring my mouth with her kisses.
Nature prompted her movements, and in a very few minutes we both poured
down a plenteous offering on Venus's altar. She shook and trembled as
she felt the warm gush within her, and squeezed me with all her might
to her bosom. We lay in a trance for some ten minutes, my charming
governess fainting with love, and giving my delighted prick the most
luscious pressure, which speedily fired him to new efforts. Miss Evelyn
herself was most amorously excited, and we again dashed on love's
delicious path--to end, as usual, in the death-like swoon of satiated
passion. When we came to our senses, my loved mistress, embracing me
tenderly, and throwing her eyes up to heaven, said--

"Oh, my dear darling boy, you made me suffer horribly at first, but I
have been in heaven since. Oh, how I love and adore you. But we must
rise, my Charlie, we may be discovered. We have, in fact, run great
risk, as the door has not been fastened."

I rose, and withdrew my prick from her reeking quim, which seemed by
its close pressure to let me go with regret. I found it was all bloody.

"Stop, Charles, let me wipe it with my handkerchief, lest it stain your
shirt."

She did so, and folding it up and placing it in her bosom, said--

"I shall keep this precious relic as a memorial of the sacrifice I have
made to you, my loved boy. Ah! Charlie, you cannot yet understand the
value of that sacrifice and the risk of ruin I have run for your sake.
I love you as I never loved anyone before, or can ever love again. My
honour and happiness are now in your hands, and it is on your
discretion they rest. Be careful never to exhibit any liberty of
conduct towards me or to mention to anyone what has occurred."

It may readily be imagined I gave her every assurance on that head, and
told her I loved her too dearly, and was too grateful for the extatic
happiness she had taught me how to enjoy, for any chance of betrayal to
take place through my indiscretion. She embraced me tenderly, told me
to go straight to the garden, that she must seek some repose after all
that had happened, and we should meet again at midday meal.

I did as desired, full of sweet thoughts at the exquisite delights she
had afforded me, and already longing for the afternoon school hour to
renew the enrapturing union of our souls and bodies. Miss Evelyn did
not come down to her luncheon, but had something sent up to her room.
However, she joined me in the school-room at two o'clock, as usual. She
was very pale, but embraced me tenderly, and was very endearing. Of
course, I immediately became excited, and very enterprising, but she
gently repulsed me, and requested that I would leave her quiet that
day, as she felt not only exhausted, but in pain, and would be all the
better for perfect repose. I begged hard to be allowed some slight
favours, if not all, but she was inexorable. Finding that I could
neither do any lessons nor be quiet, she said--

"Then we must go into the garden, I think the fresh air and a gentle
walk will do me good."

It instantly occurred to me that if I could draw her away to the summer
house, I should have a better chance of succeeding in again enjoying
her delicious embraces. Accordingly, when she went up to her room to
put on her bonnet and shawl, I possessed myself of the key, to be
prepared for my chance of success.

We walked about the flower garden for a time, Miss Evelyn taking my
arm, and most lovingly conversing with me. She walked somewhat stiffly.
We sat down for a rest, shortly she felt the heat of the sun too great,
so I proposed a walk in the shaded shrubbery. I kept prattling on, so
as not to let her see how far I was leading her away, she appeared
surprised that we had got so far, when we came in sight of the summer
house.

"Oh! Charlie, my dear, I am afraid it will fatigue me too much to walk
all the way back without rest and we have not the key."

"Sometimes it is left in the door, I will run and see." Off I bounded,
slipped the key in the lock, and ran back to say it was there, she
followed me in, and sank on the long backless sofa, which had already
served me so often. I begged her to extend herself at length. I placed
pillows for her head, and drew a chair for myself near her. She did not
appear to have any suspicion of any act on my part, but lay down on her
side. She took my hand in hers, and we began a conversation, very
interesting, in as much as it was how we should regulate our conduct,
so as not to raise any suspicion of our amorous connection, and also of
how we should manage to meet from time to time.

"You, dear boy," she said, "I cannot now live without the comfort of
your embraces, but you must remember, in my dependent position,
discovery would be my ruin. I rely on your silence and discretion, and
if I am as dear to you as you, my adored Charlie, are to me, I may
safely trust to you." I threw my arms round her neck, and told her I
loved her all too dearly, and longed too much to return to her
endearing and delicious embraces, for her to have any fear of my
committing either her or myself. She fondly embraced and kissed me. I
became fired with passion. My hand wandered, her position only enabled
her to make a feeble resistance, I reached her beauteously covered
mount, she murmured supplications to be left alone, and held her thighs
close together.

She was not aware of my knowledge of the parts, so inserting my finger
into the upper part of the lips, I reached her clitoris, and began
rubbing in and out, purposely, in an awkward way, but taking care to
hit the right point.

"Charlie, my Charlie, you must not do that--I--I cannot bear it."

At the same time she threw her arm round my neck and drew me to her
lips, which glued themselves to mine. I felt her thighs yield and open.
I immediately improved the occasion, and began frigging her with my
middle finger up her quim. Her passions became inflamed.

"Come then, my darling boy, to my arms, I cannot resist you longer."

In an instant I was unbuttoned and had my trousers down, and was
between her legs almost before she had concluded her sentence. The
excitement of my caresses had moistened her juicy cunt, and the head of
my prick entered without any difficulty. In my ardour I was about to
rush on with a vigorous shove, when she implored me to be more gentle,
as she still smarted from our morning encounter. Moderating my
movements, and gently insinuating my stiff instrument, I gradually made
my way up to its utmost limits, and hardly occasioned even a grimace of
pain. Here I stopped, leaving it sheathed up to the root, and making it
throb from instant to instant. Then seeking my loved Miss Evelyn's
mouth, our lips and tongues met. Her arms round my waist became tighter
in their embrace. The delicious folds of her luscious juicy quim began
to throb and press on my excited member. Allowing her to become
thoroughly excited, I waited until she actually quite unexpectedly
yielded down her nature, and spent profusely, to the exquisite pleasure
of my saturated organ. I still held all off, to give her time after the
delight of that spend, which was probably the first of unalloyed
extatic pleasure she enjoyed; for as I was an inactive participator,
there was nothing to cause any action on the still raw edges of her
broken maidenhead. Her internal pressures were most exquisite. Our
embraces with tongues and lips were like the billing and cooing of
doves, and very rapidly brought her again to a raging point of desire.
I then began with slow and gentle movements, drawing my prick slowly
nearly all the way out, and then as slowly driving it up to the hilt.
Her previous very copious discharge had so oiled the delicious folds of
her cunt, that no pain was felt, only the intense pleasure. At last it
became overpowering; her arms were thrown round my waist, and her legs
were involuntary cast over my hips. Nature prompted her to the most
delicious movements of her bottom; she met my forward thrusts, and
responded to them in the most libidinous manner.

"Go on, go on, dear Charlie--faster!--faster!"

I wanted no spur. Fast and furious grew our movements, until at last,
with a mutual cry of delight, we sank in each other's arms in the
blissful extasy of the most complete enjoyment. It was several minutes
before we regained our senses, and both our organs of generation were
pulsating, the one within the other, in all the luxury of satiated
passion. With her beauteous legs still thrown over mine, she moved her
arms to my neck, kissed me voluptuously, and mingled the sweetest
accents of gratification with the most endearing caresses and
flatteries. I lay, as it were, in the paphian bower of bliss, in a
state of exquisite sensations quite impossible to describe. It seemed
even a greater pleasure than the more active state of delight we had
been to. I could have lain so for hours, but for that excitable prick
of mine, whose sensibilities were far too rapidly set in motion by the
luscious pressures of that most delightful cunt in which it lay
engulphed. It had gradually resumed its pristine firmness, and was now
at full stand, throbbing impatiently for further combats. I began to
move. Miss Evelyn said--

"Oh, my Charlie, you must cease, my dear boy; we must not only be
prudent, but consider your youth and health. Do, oh! do! my dear boy.
Oh!--pray cease."

Her words were cut short by the increasing passion that the vigorous
movements of my prick occasioned to her whole system. She could resist
no longer, but with arms and legs closely embracing me, and devouring
me with kisses, she threw herself into the fight, and with body and
soul so seconded me that we died away in screams of delight, and sank
quite insensible in each other's arms.

It was many minutes before we recovered speech. I still lay entirely
embedded in her most exquisite cunt, and would have liked to have
continued in her delicious embrace. But Miss Evelyn so imploringly
beseeched me to cease for this time, and pointed out how necessary
prudency was, if we ever wished to meet again, that I felt compelled to
raise myself from her body. But, in doing so, I slid off downwards, and
before she could prevent me, I glued my lips to the open pouters below
me, and greedily devoured all her delicious discharge, and did not
desist until I had so licked her clitoris as to make her spend most
copiously again. At first she had tried to resist, saying--

"Charlie, what on earth are you at? You must not, my dear boy, it is
dreadful."

But, as I roused her passions, her hand, instead of trying to draw away
my head, held it firm and pushed it well against her throbbing and
delicious quim, her thighs closed against the sides of my head, and she
almost swooned away with the extasy of her discharge. I greedily
swallowed it and rising completely, took her in my arms, and placing
her on her bottom, sweetly kissed her.

"Oh, what a charming creature you are, my beloved Miss Evelyn, I adore
you from the sole of your feet to the crown of your bead."

"But you, my beloved Charlie, have more than justified my imprudence.
You have given me a joy which I could never have dreamt of. I am yours,
body and soul; do with me as you like. I, too, adore the very ground
you tread on."

We continued exchanging the sweetest vows of affection, until, seeing
my prick rising to its usual stiffness, she said--

"Oh, my darling, you must put this away; it would be most imprudent to
continue any longer. Now, let me button it up."

First stooping and kissing it, she put it into my trousers with some
difficulty, buttoned me up, and we strolled towards the house.

Our conversation turned on our chance of fresh encounters. She begged I
would not think of attempting anything of the kind next day, and she
would try and arrange for the day after, although my sisters were
terribly in the way.

I suggested she should keep me in as when she flogged me, nay, indeed,
she should flog me in reality if she liked.

She laughed at my idea, but said something might be done in that way as
a blind. So I said--

"I will neglect my lesson on purpose to furnish an excuse."

"We shall see--we shall see. Meanwhile, remember to be very prudent."

We reached the house; she retired to her room until mamma returned.
Very kind inquiries were made, she said she had suffered severely from
headache, but, on the whole, felt better and hoped that a good night's
rest would put her all to rights. We all retired early, both mamma and
the girls were tired with their drive and shopping. I had resumed my
bed in the little dressing-room, and went to sleep with thoughts of my
delicious day's doings, to dream of re-enacting them with every amorous
excess that the utmost lubricity could suggest.

The next day Miss Evelyn began to resume her former looks--the struggle
was at an end. She was very gentle in her manner, and seemed even more
affectionate than usual to my sisters, who, fancying she was not very
well, were attentive, rather trying to anticipate her wishes than
following them.

There was rather a greater appearance of reserve than previously in her
manner to me, but when I went up to her to repeat my lessons, there was
a warmer clasping of my waist and a suppressed manner that showed she
was restraining her desire to press me to her bosom. Her face slightly
flushed, and she turned her beautiful eyes upon me with such an
endearing expression of affection that I could have thrown myself into
her arms but for the check upon my ardour which her own reserve imposed
upon me.

Nothing more took place between us that day. At our usual hour of
recreation, from four till five, Miss Evelyn retired to her room to
repose after the efforts of restraint that she had put upon herself all
day, and left us to ourselves. I need not say an immediate resort to
the summer house followed. There, first deliciously fucking Mary, and
then gamahuching Eliza, with the addition of gently introducing, at the
same time, a finger a short distance up her quim, I finished off with
another voluptuous fuck with Mary. I thus was enabled to bear the
bridle Miss Evelyn put upon the indulgence of my appetite in her
person, and was apparently more reasonable than in reality. She again,
on the second day, failed to give me the opportunity I so longed for.
Thinking she might hesitate, from fear of discovery, and the fact of
having no apparently reasonable excuse of being alone with me, I
determined to play the idler next day in the afternoon. On being called
up, I had done nothing. Miss Evelyn looked grave, but blushed deeply at
the same time.

"What do you mean, Charlie, by this idleness? Go, do your lesson, or I
shall be obliged to punish you."

She took me by the arm, and gently pressed it as she told me to resume
my seat. At four o'clock, of course, my lesson was as far as before
from being done.

"Mary and Eliza, you can go into the garden. Charles will remain until
he finishes his lesson, or is punished for his idleness."

They left and Miss Evelyn locked the door after them. Then we flew into
each other's arms, and indulged in the most endearing caresses for a
very few seconds. I had been in a state of most violent erection for
some time, so that my hand was up her petticoats immediately. I gently
pushed her back on her low long easy chair, and kneeling in front,
first thrust my head between her thighs, and taking a glance at her
beautifully haired cunt, already all moist and juicy, showing that she
was as ready as myself, I gamahuched her until she spent in my mouth,
and sucked the delicious liquid most greedily. There was something
peculiarly sweet in her spend, and my tongue sought the innermost
lining of her delicious quim as far as its limited length would admit,
that I might not lose a drop of her exquisite nectar, worthy of the
gods. The excitement I occasioned her was almost too much for her to
bear, she drew me up, saying--

"Oh! Charlie, my angel of a boy, come, oh, come to my arms." I raised
myself up, threw myself into her arms, and in a moment I was engulphed
up to the cods in her exquisite and throbbing cunt; she closed upon me
with arms and legs, we were both too violently excited to pause for any
of the more voluptuous movements of less violent desires, but rushed on
in passion's wildest extasy, both far too eager to think of any
restraint, and with the utmost vigour on both our parts, we ran our
first course with great rapidity. My adored Miss Evelyn had quite got
over every feeling of pain, and could not but be delighted with the
heat and vigour of my attack. We both died away together, at the
extatic moment pouring down a mutual flood of spunk to cool the
inflamed members that had the instant before been in such tumultuous
action. Darling Miss Evelyn hugged me close to her bosom, and threw her
beautiful eyes, screaming with passion, up to the ceiling, as if to
thank heaven for the joys she had felt. Our lips then met and glued
themselves together in one long, long kiss of love, which quickly
lighted up our lust; she was as eager as myself, and we had another
vigorous encounter, ending in all the agonies of delight, as before.
Then after a longer interval of the most endearing caresses and fond
accents of murmured love, we ran our third course, with more
abandon--lengthening out our exquisite sensations, by slower and
quicker movements and pauses between--in which my beautiful governess
began to develope an art in which she shortly became even superior to
the more experienced Mrs. Benson, who had so charmingly initiated me
into love's mysteries.

There was a peculiar charming and endearing softness in the manner of
Miss Evelyn most winning and most exquisitely attractive. It was
evidenced even in her mode of handling my prick; without grasping it,
her hand appeared to pass over it hardly touching it, but in so
exciting a manner that after any number of encounters, she could raise
it by her fairy touch in a moment. Our third encounter lasted quite
half an hour, and we sank in the death-like luxury of discharge, our
whole souls seemed to exude with the exquisite distillation of our
seed. We had long before regained our senses. I was still engulphed in
her delicious cunt, but she begged me to relieve her of my weight. We
rose, she shook her petticoats down, and assisted me to arrange my
trousers. I then sat down and took her on my knee. Our lips met in a
mutual warm kiss of gratified passion. She thanked me for the joys of
paradise I had given her--and for my discretion in procuring an excuse
for our meeting. She acknowledged that she had been as impatient as
myself, but was obliged to take every precaution against raising the
slightest suspicion in the house.

"You must always remember, my darling boy, that for me discovery would
be my ruin for ever. I risk every thing to possess you, my beloved boy,
I would care little for discovery, if it would not also separate us for
ever. That idea, my adored Charlie, is insupportable, I can no longer
exist without you." Here she threw her arms round my neck, and burst
into tears.

I have already described the effect of tears on my unruly member,
which, while I was consoling and vowing eternal attachment to my loved
mistress, burst from its bonds and stood out in all its glory. I took
her soft and beautiful little hand, and laid it on it. She grasped it
tightly, and looking at it, while smiling through her tears, said--

"My Charlie, what a great big thing it is. I wonder how it could ever
get into me, without killing me."

"You shall soon see that," said I, and changing places, I laid her
down, lifted her petticoats and was into her in a moment. She begged me
to proceed slowly, and to lengthen out our pleasures as much as
possible. We had a most glorious and truly delicious fuck; my lovely
and charming mistress giving me most extatic pleasure by the exquisite
pressures of the internal folds of her delicious and lascivious cunt.

We lay enraptured for long after we had spent, and then resumed our
sitting position, and arranged every thing in order, as the time for
the return of my sisters from their hour of recreation was close at
hand.

Our conversation naturally turned upon how we should arrange for our
next meeting. Miss Evelyn insisted that we must not think of meeting
more than once in three or four days, as otherwise we might raise
suspicions fatal to our meeting at all. However reasonable this was, I
raised an outcry against such a tantalizing delay, and begged hard for
a shorter period between our intervals.

"It cannot be my darling boy, remember discovery would separate us for
ever. By prudence, we may long continue these delicious meetings." I
suddenly suggested that as I slept alone in the little room, which,
when the spare room was unoccupied, was far away from every one, she
might steal along at night, when all were asleep, and thus I could
enjoy the whole of her exquisite charms, without hindrance. She did not
reply, but I could see her eye sparkled, and her cheek flushed as if
already in imagination she was revelling untrammelled in all the luxury
of voluptuousness such a plan opened out. However, she did not at once
accept, but kissing me fondly, called me her dear and ingenious boy,
and said she would think over my suggestion. We resumed our lessons on
my sisters' return. Miss Evelyn was again four days before she gave me
another opportunity of an amorous meeting. It was only my purposed
insubordination that obtained me this interview. We again indulged in
all the luxuries of carnal enjoyment, as far as could be done,
incommoded as we both were by dress and locality. Reverting more
strongly than ever to my plan of meeting in my lonely room, I begged so
hard that at last she promised to come the night of the following day.
I was obliged to put up with this, although I would fain have had her
come that very night, but as her passions were evidently gaining
stronger possession of her, and she was becoming more loving, and more
voluptuous than ever, I felt certain she would not disappoint me on the
next night. The delicious idea of revelling in charms I had so often
furtively gazed on, kept me away from my sisters next day. Under a plea
of headache I went early to bed, and took up some oil, to oil the
hinges and lock of the door, to be prepared for my loved mistress. I
lay long awake, and was almost in despair of her coming, when I heard
the clock strike twelve. All at once I became aware she was at my
bedside. She had entered the room with so gentle a step that though on
the watch for her, I did not hear her even when she opened the door,
shut, and locked it. She had come in her dark-grey cloak, and when at
my bedside this was dropped on the floor, she stood in nothing but a
very fine and thin chemise. She flung herself in my arms, as I rose to
embrace her, and we instantly sank closely clasped in each other's
arms. I was far too sharply set to practise any preliminaries. I turned
her on her back, and was into her in a moment, with one vigorous
thrust, which almost took away her breath, and gave her intense
delight. I was too quick for her, however, as I spent in two or three
shoves into that delight-giving cunt. But as this hardly allayed the
fires of my too ardent desires, the convulsive internal movements of
her unsatisfied orbit quickly restored my scarcely reduced member to a
renewed vigour. Miss Evelyn being greatly excited by the unsatisfying
nature of my first bout, was extremely warm, and throwing her arms and
legs around my body, we again rushed headlong into all the fury of
fucking, and as my previous spendings had somewhat reduced the power of
immediate discharge, I was able to suit my movements exactly to those
of my most active companion, and we sank together in all the
voluptuousness of satisfied desires, lying long locked in each other's
arms, before we were again in a state to renew our combats in love's
delicious domain. We spent the interval in whispered vows and fond
endearments and embracings of each other's naked charms, both of us
admiringly passing our hands over every part of our bodies.

Miss Evelyn at last concentrated all her attention on my well-developed
member, which she most endearingly embraced and fondled tenderly, very
quickly putting him into an ungovernable state of erection. I was lying
on my back, and she partially raised herself to kiss my formidable
weapon; so gently putting her upon me, I told her it was her turn to do
the work. She laughed, but at once mounted upon me, and bringing her
delicious cunt right over my prick, and guiding it to the entrance of
love's grotto, she gently sank down upon it and engulphed it until the
two hairs pressed against each other. A few slow up and down movements
followed, when becoming too libidinous for such temporizing delays, she
sank on my belly, and began to show most wonderful activity of loins
and bottom. I seconded her to the utmost, and finding she was so
excited, I slipped my hand round behind and introduced my middle finger
in the rosy and very tight orifice of her glorious backside. I
continued to move in and out in unison with her up and down heavings.
It seemed to spur her on to more vigorous actions, and in the midst of
short gaspings and suppressed sighs, she sank almost senseless on my
bosom, I, too, had quickened my action, and shot into her gaping womb a
torrent of boiling sperm.

We lay entranced in the raptures of satiated desire for a long time. At
last she came to her senses, and fondly kissing me, turned off, and we
lay side by side closely embraced.

"Oh! my beloved Charlie, what exquisite delight you have given me; you
are the most delicious and loving creature that ever could be created.
You kill me with pleasure, but what was that you were doing to my
bottom? What put such an idea into your head?"

"I don't know," I replied. "I put my arm round to feel the beautiful
globes of your bottom, and found in grasping one that my finger was
against a hole, all wet with our previous encounters, and pressing it,
found that my finger slipped in; you gave it such a delicious pressure
when in that the idea entered into my head that, as it resembled the
delicious pressure your enchanting other orifice gives my shaft when
embracing you, this orifice would like a similar movement to that which
my shaft exercised in your quim. So I did so, and it seemed to add to
your excitement, if I may judge by the extraordinary convulsive
pressures you gave my finger when you died away in all the agony of our
final rapture. Tell me, my beloved Miss Evelyn, did it add to your
pleasure as much as I fancied?"

"Well, my darling Charlie, I must own it did, very much to my surprise;
it seemed to make the final pleasure almost too exciting to bear, and I
can only account it a happy accident leading to an increase to pleasure
I already thought beyond the power of nature to surpass. Naughty boy, I
feel your great instrument at full stretch again, but you must moderate
yourself, my darling, we have done enough for to-night No, no, no! I am
not going to let him in again."

Passing her hand down, she turned away its head from the charming
entrance of her cunt, and began handling and feeling it in apparent
admiration of its length, thickness, and stiffness. Her gentle touch
did anything but allay the passion that was rising to fever heat; so
sucking one of her bubbies, while I pressed her to me with one arm
under her, and embracing her on the other side, I passed my hand
between our moist and warm bodies, reached her charming clitoris,
already stiff with the excitement of handling my prick. My titillations
soon decided her passions, and gently prompting her with the arm under
her body, I turned her once more on the top of me. She murmured an
objection, but offered no resistance; on the contrary, she herself
guided my throbbing and eager prick into the voluptuous sheath that was
longing to engulph it. Our movements this time were less hurried and
more voluptuous. For some time she kept her body upright, rising and
falling from her knees. I put my finger to her clitoris, and added to
the extatic pleasure she was so salaciously enjoying. She soon found
she must come to more rapid and vigorous movements, and lying down on
my belly embraced and kissed me. Toying with our tongues I put an arm
round her waist, and held her tight, while her glorious buttocks and
most supple loins kept up the most delicious thrust and pressures on my
thoroughly engulphed weapon. I again stimulated her to the highest
pitch of excited desires by introducing my finger behind, and we both
came to the grand crisis in a tumultuous state of enraptured agony,
unable to do ought, but from moment to moment convulsively throb in and
on our engulphed members. We must have lain thus languidly, and
deliciously enjoying all the raptures of the most complete and
voluptuous gratification of our passions, for fully thirty minutes
before we recovered complete consciousness. Miss Evelyn was first to
remember where she was. She sprang up, embraced me tenderly, and said
she must leave me at once, she was afraid she had already stayed
imprudently long. In fact, it was near five o'clock in the morning. I
rose from the bed to fling my arms round her lovely body, to fondle and
embrace her exquisite bubbies. With difficulty she tore herself from my
arms. I accompanied her to the door, and with a mutual and loving kiss
we parted. I to return and rapidly sink into the sweetest slumber after
such a delicious night of most voluptuous fucking.

She came again three times in the next six nights; each time we renewed
our mutual joys, with ever increasing voluptuous indulgencies. On
coming to me for the fifth time, she said--

"Dear Charlie, I have only come to kiss you, and say I cannot stop."

"Cannot stop!" I cried, "and why not, beloved Miss Evelyn?"

"I am not well, but cannot explain more."

I had sprung out of bed, and clasped her in my arms, then passing a
hand down to her beauteous and well-covered mons Veneris, I found that
she was tied up there in cloth. I immediately remembered how my loved
Mrs. Benson had been exactly in the same way. I then also remarked the
peculiar odour of breath, but pretending ignorance, I begged to know
what had happened to my darling little grotto.

"I cannot tell you more, my dear boy, but it will keep me away from you
for four or five nights."

"But why should that be the case; cannot you let me enter that
delicious cave of delight only once?"

"No, no, impossible! my dear Charlie, absolutely impossible! It would
do me very great harm, and you too. Let us be quiet in that way, and I
shall be the sooner well again to come and embrace you as before."

"Oh! but darling, how can I support five nights' absence, I shall go
mad with desire and burst--feel how he grows, and is longing for his
loved companion."

Her soft and gentle hand caressed it. I thought to succeed by a _coup
de main_, but she was too quick for me.

"No, Charles, I am serious, and you must not try to force me, or I
shall never come near you again."

I saw she was in earnest, and flung myself on the bed in a pet.

"Come, my darling Charlie, be reasonable, and I will do my best to give
you some satisfaction. Lay yourself on your back--so. I will kneel on
the floor at right angles to you, because you must not attempt to touch
me down there. That is a dear boy."

So taking my prick in her soft hand, she gently moved it up and down;
then, suddenly stopping, took it into her mouth, sucking as much as she
could get in, and titillating the knob with her tongue, while one hand
frigged at the root of my prick and the other gently handled my two
crisped-up cods. She prolonged the pleasure by occasional pauses, and
at last, on finding the electric-like sensations coming, she hastened
her movement, and I poured a torrent of sperm into her mouth. She
continued her delicious sucking until not a drop more was left for her
to swallow. This was the first time she ever gamahuched me, but it was
not the last by scores of times. Ever after we improved upon the model,
and added other endearments. When not under her courses, we mutually
gamahuched each other, and she was the first to repeat upon me, with
the intensest gratification, the delicious introduction of a finger
behind while gamahuching me. At present, when she had thus taken the
edge off my carnal appetite, she lovingly embraced me, and left me to
my lovely slumbers. Of course, the four days' grace, saving two more
passing visits "to keep me cool," as she said, turned all to the
advantage of my sisters, whom I fucked and frigged to their utmost
gratification and delight.

I thus passed about four months. Miss Evelyn becoming a perfect adept
in love's delicious mysteries; but, although I had attempted to enjoy
the orifice of the lower temple of Venus, my member was too large, and
gave too much pain, to completely succeed, so that I became the
faithful worshipper at the more legitimate altar of love. My sisters
were gradually developing their forms. Mary particularly so. The hair
on her quim had increased to a most charming curling profusion. Her
hips spread out, and her bottom, hard and prominent, promised to be
very large. Eliza, too, began to show increased bubbies, and an
enlarged and mossy mons Veneris.

We were approaching summer, and near the full of the moon, Mary had
complained of feeling very low spirited, and very much inclined to cry.
I tried to comfort her, and thought success would best attend my
efforts if I fucked her. So enticing her down into the garden, we
entered the summer house, and I at once proceeded to action. She was
rather unwilling, she could not say why, but had an instinctive
reluctance. She yielded, however, to my entreaties, and I fucked her
without apparently exciting her in the usual way. I consequently
withdrew as soon as I had run the first course, and at once discovered
what ailed poor Mary. My member was covered with blood. For the first
time her courses had come upon her. She was greatly alarmed, but I told
her I had beard it was quite natural to young women when they reached a
certain age, that she had better tell mamma at once, who would instruct
her what to do. I carefully wiped my reddened member, and then retired
to my room to purify myself. That very night, on Miss Evelyn coming to
me, I found she was exactly in the same state. She gave me my usual
relief with her soft hand and caressing lips, and then left me for five
nights, as at that time.

I now found myself reduced to my dear little sister Eliza. Up to this
time I had never actually fucked her, and her maidenhead was still
intact. She was now approaching fourteen, and the down on her charming
little cunt was becoming more decided; her bubbies too, under the
erotic excitement of my _attouchements_ and gamahuching, had assumed a
decided prominence. My finger had somewhat rendered the opening of her
little pinky slit more easy of access. So I resolved to complete her
carnal education and fuck her thoroughly. The opportunity was perfect;
both Miss Evelyn and Mary retired to their rooms to lie down at our
usual hour's recreation, Eliza and I at once hied to the summer house,
and locked ourselves in. I immediately laid her down on the long couch,
and gamahuched her until she spent in my mouth, and then continued
until she was again almost mad with desire. I then told her I should
initiate her into a new mystery, more delicious than any she had yet
experienced, but that the first initiation was always painful.

"Oh! what is it, my dear Charlie, everything you do is so nice, I know
I shall like it--what is it?"

"Then you must know, dear Eliza, that this little cunt of yours is made
for the express purpose of having a prick put into it; only, as mine is
so large, and you are still so small and so young, I was afraid it
would give you too much pain to do it sooner; but now, I think, I may
get it in, if I do it gently."

"Oh, Charlie, dear, put it in at once, I have often felt I should like
it so; but, as you never attempted to do it, I thought it was a mere
fancy of mine. Have you ever put it inside Mary's quim?"

"Often; nay, always, my darling."

"Does she like it?"

"She adores it."

"Then put it into me directly, Charlie."

I wanted nothing better, and told her that in order to thoroughly enjoy
it, she must strip. In a minute she dropped off everything, while I
took off my trousers--coat and waistcoat having been already laid
aside. I had brought a towel to lay on the couch below her bottom, to
prevent any telltale stains. Laying her down on her back, with her
bottom close to the end, her legs gathered up, and her two feet resting
on the sofa, with her knees falling outwards (in the very best position
for my intended operation), I put a pillow on the floor, on which I
knelt, thus bringing my cock a little above her quim to give me a good
purchase. I then first gamahuched her well again, until she spent and
cried out--

"Oh, put it in, my dear Charlie, I do feel to want it so!"

She was already well moistened by her previous discharges, and by my
licking the lips of her cunt, and covering them with saliva, with which
I also, at the same time, wetted my prick itself. I then made the point
approach the charming pouting and longing lips of her sweet little
cunt, and rubbing it first up and down between the lips, proceeded to
insert its knob between them. Thanks to the precautions taken, and the
excitement I had raised by my previous caresses with tongue and prick,
the immediate entrance was effected with greater ease than might have
been expected. No sooner was it in about an inch beyond the knob than
the passion of excitement I had raised so stimulated the natural
lubricity of Eliza's nature that she heaved up her buttocks
energetically, letting her knees drop quite down sideways, thus
favouring to the utmost my forward thrust made at the moment, so that
my prick was sheathed in an instant more than half his length, and but
for the obstacle of her maidenhead, which he then met with, would have
been entirely engulphed. As it was, it gave her a very sharp pang of
pain, which made her shrink back, and utter an--

"Oh! Charlie!"

"Do not fear, I will be gentle, keep still a moment and then you will
find the pain pass away, and great pleasure follow."

So we lay still for a time, until I felt those involuntary internal
pressures, the true precursors and infallible indicators of rising
desires; so commencing a slow and continuous in and out movement, I
shortly produced such an excess of pleasure in her delicious orbit,
that her movements became almost furious, and nature alone prompted her
to second me with as much art as if she had already been long
instructed in the delicious movements so calculated to add to the
libidinous delights of true enjoyment.

But Eliza was a rare example of a truly salacious and voluptuous
nature, and proved herself in that way far in advance of Mary; although
she was of a very warm temperament, Eliza's passions were far more
excitable, and in the end she became one of the most voluptuous fuckers
possible, abandoning herself to all the wildest raptures that the most
erotic nature could suggest. Of this, hereafter; at present I had
worked her up to the utmost pitch of excited desire; she was in the
very act of discharging, and as I withdrew for a final thrust, she
heaved up her buttocks in an agony of pleasure, I felt it was now or
never, and striking home with all my force, I burst with irresistible
strength through every obstacle, and tore my way inwards, until
sheathed to my very cods. Poor Eliza! at the very moment she thought
herself in the seventh heaven of delight, she experienced the most
excruciating agony. She gave a piercing cry and fainted away; her arms
fell senseless from my body--her legs would have also fallen, but
twining my arms round them, I continued for several successive thrusts
to penetrate fully and easily into every recess, for I myself was wound
up to a fearful state of excitement. I died away in an excess of joy,
sending a torrent of balmy sperm to soften and mitigate the pain of her
terribly torn quim. Finding that Eliza could not regain consciousness,
I rose somewhat in alarm, and was horrified to see the quantity of
blood that followed my withdrawal. It was fortunate my forethought of
the towel, as it had not only saved the sofa, but helped to stanch her
swollen and bleeding quim, and to wipe the blood from her thighs and
bottom. I had effected all this before the dear girl showed the least
symptoms of animation. She first sighed, then shivered, and at last
opened her eyes, and looked confusedly at me, and asked--

"What has happened to me, Charlie?"

Then observing how she was lying naked, she recovered her complete
consciousness of all the circumstances of the case.

"Oh! Charlie, now I know; I thought you had killed me; Charlie, oh! it
was so frightfully painful. How could you hurt me so, and just as I
thought it was the most heavenly pleasure I had ever experienced in all
my life."

"My darling, it is all over now, and it will never hurt again, and we
shall both of us have greater pleasure than ever, but not just now; it
has been greater pain to you than I thought it would be, and for the
present we must not attempt any more." I helped her to rise, but she
felt very faint, and I had great difficulty in getting her dressed. She
was shocked to see the bloody state of the towel. I told her to put my
handkerchief between her thighs, and partly up her slit, to prevent any
marks of blood staining her shift. I then laid her down on the sofa,
while I ran to get some water from the fountain in the garden. I took a
glass and the towel with me. I returned with the water, which greatly
refreshed Eliza. I begged her to lie still as long as she could stay.
However, when she attempted to walk, she found herself very much
incommoded with the smarting pain. I was terribly afraid lest this
would be observed when we got to the house, so I suggested she should
purposely fall down when in sight of any one, and say she could not
move because she had hurt her knee by the fall.

This stratagem succeeded admirably. We were seen approaching by Miss
Evelyn, my mother, and Mary. Dear Eliza acted her part admirably, was
seen to fall heavily, and screamed. They all rushed out, we lifted her
carefully on her legs, and supported her to the house, she complaining
of the pain in the knee and ankle. My mother insisted on her going to
bed at once, and having embrocations and hot towels applied. Eliza let
them do as they liked, and eventually was left to quiet repose, which
soon relieved the painful sensations she had undergone. Next day she
complained of great stiffness, and walked lame, but thought the hot
applications had prevented the swelling, so thus happily passed off all
observations of suspicion of the real circumstances of the case. It was
not until the third day after that I attempted to make an entrance. Of
course, I excited her first to the utmost by a long continued
gamahuching. She then let me, but with fear and trembling, introduce my
bursting member into the delicate folds of her cunt. As I was very
gentle in my movements, the pain was scarcely felt, and when once well
sheathed, and the first thrusts given slowly and luxuriously, the whole
lubricity of her nature was soon awakened, and by the time I was ready
to spend she was as ready to second me, and we died away in a mutual
flood of delighted extasy. She held me close, and would not let me
withdraw.

"No, Charlie, it took some trouble to get it in, let it stop where it
is so deliciously engulphed," and at once anticipating her natural
desires, she began the most exquisite pressures upon me, which very
shortly brought us both up to the point of demanding more active
measures. However, I rather restrained her, and told her we must retard
our movements to increase our pleasures, because mere quick repetitions
would only exhaust her, without yielding the true extasies of
enjoyment. I, therefore, taught her the pleasures of the slow
movements, and I worked her up to spending point, without giving way
myself. The dear little creature clung to me with the most close and
endearing embraces, as if she should force a complete amalgamation of
our two bodies, and died away in the sweetest bliss of contented
desire, with such a heavenly expression of extasy on her face as made
me devour it with kisses. I had great difficulty in restraining myself
from precipitately following her example; her delicious movements at
the moment of spending, and the close pressures on my prick, were so
exciting that resisting them was quite a triumph of control. I
succeeded, and lay quite quiet, embalmed in the delicious suction of
those exquisite folds of her charming little cunt, which exercised the
most delightful pressures as well as suction on my enraptured prick. I
left it entirely to her to lie as we were as long as she pleased, or to
again begin the dear delightful friction that should once more make us
dash on passion's furious course, to end as usual in the ever delicious
extasies of the final crisis.

This last bout had been a double one for my sister; she all but swooned
away with the rapture my spending in unison with her produced. She
declared it was a death of the most delicious extasy, which it was
perfectly impossible to describe. She clung to me, kissing me in the
most endearing manner, and telling me how happy I had at last made her
by completing the insertion of my prick in her cunt. It was worth the
suffering of twenty times as much agony to arrive at so exquisite a
result as every fuck I now gave her conferred upon her. We adjourned to
the flower garden, that we might be seen playing together, and not
excite suspicion by our constant disappearance, now that we were only
two together. Of course, Mary knew what we were at and probably guessed
that I had completed the initiation of Eliza. She smiled, and gave me a
significant pressure of the hand, when we met again in the school-room
to resume our lessons. For two days more I enjoyed Eliza all to myself;
at each new fuck she became more and more perfect in conferring as well
as receiving pleasure.

On the third day, Miss Evelyn whispered, "to-night," as she gave me a
stolen pressure of the hand. She came, and we indulged in every whim of
our fancy. I had further the delicious pleasure of gazing on all her
naked beauties, as it was daylight before we parted; I had gamahuched
her twice, and fucked her five times. She gave me credit for a long
fast, and allowed so much indulgence on that account, but told me I
must in future be more moderate, for her sake, if not for my own. She
allowed three nights to pass before again coming to me. I cannot say I
regretted it, because now that Eliza as initiated, as well as Mary, we
indulged in the most delightful orgies of fucking and gamahuching at
the same time. At first we used to fuck with one laid on her back to be
fucked, while the other backed on her knees over the face of the one
being fucked, and was gamahuched by her, while I introduced my finger
into the rosy orifice of the bottom before me. But we found the most
voluptuous way was for one to lie down on her back, and the other on
hands and knees over her. She thus brought her mouth over the cunt of
the one lying down, and presented her bottom to me, who knelt behind
her. The one below guided my prick into the cunt above her face; she
had thus all the satisfaction of seeing our action, while with one hand
she tickled my cods, and the other felt my bottom-hole, and inserted a
finger. Meanwhile, she was gamahuched and bottom-frigged at the same
time by the one I was fucking, and we used all three to die away in
agonies of enraptured delight, to recommence with a change of places
between the two girls. Sometimes I tried to introduce my prick into the
rosy little orifice of Mary's backside, but, although the
finger-frigging gave her much additional pleasure while her cunt was
operated upon by my virile member, she as yet could not support the
insertion of my large prick. I had not even attempted little Lizzie,
but one day, when Miss Evelyn and Mary were again under menstruation,
and I had dear Lizzie all to myself, she was seized with such an
irresistible desire to ease herself, that she had only time to get
behind a bush and squat down. I remained waiting for her, when she
called to me, to ask if I had any paper. I advanced to give her some.
She was in a half-standing position, with her clothes held up to her
waist. While giving her the paper, my eyes accidentally fell upon what
she had voided. I was struck with its extraordinary thickness. I made
no observation at the time, but it raised an idea that preoccupied me
much. I had often thought over the pleasure that fucking Mrs. Benson's
bum-hole had given me, hence I had tried to initiate both Miss Evelyn
and Mary in that delightful route of pleasure, but, as before stated,
had been unable to succeed with them from the great developement of my
weapon. Thinking that if they could not bear the insertion, there could
be no possibility of success with my younger and less developed sister,
I had never attempted with Lizzie more than the insertion of one
finger. It is true, with her it seemed to produce more excitement than
either upon Miss Evelyn or Mary. The sight of the extraordinary
dimensions of the matter she had voided now suggested the idea that if
her apparently very small and rosy-lipped bottom-hole could allow so
large a mass to come out, with gentle efforts my scarcely larger
machine might be inserted. I determined to try the initiation into that
route of delight the very next day. Remembering that dear Mrs. Benson
always made it a rule that she should be first well fucked and
gamahuched, and the prick well moistened, I began by exciting dear
Lizzie to the utmost. I first fucked her, and made her spend twice to
my once; then gamahuched her until she implored me to shove my prick
into her. I had managed to introduce my two forefingers at once into
her bottom, and had frigged her while sucking her cunt, without
apparently giving any pain; on the contrary, from her movements I
fancied she felt greater excitement. I took care to enlarge, as much as
possible, or rather to stretch her bottom-hole as open as I could with
two fingers. It was at the moment of her greatest excitement, when she
was pressing me to fuck her at once, that I said--

"My dearest sister, there is still another mystery of sensual
voluptuousness that you have as yet not experienced or been initiated
into, and I am about to instruct you in it."

"Oh, what is it? dear Charlie; but do anything you like, and as quick
as possible."

"Well, then dear, it is this sweet little orifice in your bottom that I
am going to introduce my prick into. It may give you some little pain
the first time, but by gentleness of movement, and halting from time to
time when it hurts too much, we shall get him completely inserted, and
then it will be an immense pleasure to both of us."

"Dear, dear Charlie, do as you like, your darling prick can only give
me the greatest delight; I am dying to have him into me, I don't care
where, as long as I get the dear creature into me. I suppose I must be
on my hands and knees."

Upon which she turned with great agility, and presented the two hard
and already promising globes of her charming backside. I lost no time
in first thrusting my prick up to the hilt in her cunt, to moisten it.
It made her shudder again with excess of lust, and she exercised such a
pressure upon it that I had some difficulty in withdrawing it. It was
so snug and nice therein that was a great temptation to run a course in
her cunt at once, but having the other object in view, and knowing that
I wanted all its stiffness to succeed, I did summon up courage enough
to withdraw; then applying the very plenteous saliva in my mouth that
gamahuching her had stimulated, I added it to the already moistened
prick, and applying some to her bum-hole, and introducing a well-wetted
finger, I put the knob of my formidable prick to the small and smiling
orifice that lay before me. The disproportion struck me as so great
that I dreaded success would be much too painful for her, but
remembering the dimensions of what had come out of it, I boldly
proceeded with the operation. I got in over the knob without making her
flinch, but, as I proceded to push gently forward, and had got in about
two inches, she cried--

"Stop a little, Charlie, it feels so queer--I can't bear it in further."

I stopped where I was, but slipping a hand under her, I applied my
finger to her clitoris, holding her bottom tight against me with the
other hand round her waist, so as not to lose ground. My agile finger
soon worked her passions up, and I felt her bottom give convulsive
twitches on my prick. I allowed her to become still more excited, and
then gently pushing forward found I was slowly, and almost
imperceptibly, gaining ground. My prick was then inserted almost
two-thirds of its length, when, thrusting rather too sharply, she again
cried out, and, but for the arm that held her fast round the waist,
would have unseated me.

"Oh, Charlie, dear, do stop; it seems to choke me, and makes me feel so
queer, that I thought I was going to faint."

"I shall lie quite still, now dear Lizzie. It is quite in"--this was a
little bit of deception to calm her fears--"and when the pain of
insertion passes, which will be the case in a minute, we shall have
nothing but pleasure."

So I kept my prick just where he was, but redoubled my frigging her
clitoris, and very soon brought her up to spending point, resolved that
I would not attempt complete insertion until I felt she was in the
raptures of sensual discharge. This quickly came upon her, and it was
the delicious movement of her own buttocks that sheathed my prick to
the hilt without an effort on my part, and so far from giving her pain,
made her positively scream with the intense voluptuousness of her
sensation in spending. She could not speak for many minutes, but
continued the exquisite pressures of the sphincter muscle on my
enraptured prick. But for my determination not to give way, and rather
to wait for another bout that would completely initiate dear Lizzie in
all the luxury and abandon of this delicious mode, I must have at once
vigorously finished my own course. My restraint was well rewarded. The
first words my beloved sister uttered were those of almost delirious
joy at the extraordinary delight I had given her. Never, never, had any
fuck so enraptured her. She turned up her lovely face to me, and tears
of sensuality and voluptuousness filled her eyes.

I had hardly begun my titillations on her still excited clitoris,
which, by the way, had lately considerably developed itself, when she
was as eager for another bout as I was. I held sufficient restraint on
myself to practice every salacious movement, that I might give Lizzie
such exquisite pleasure as should induce her on future occasions to
grant me the use of her charming bottom-hole whenever I should desire.
I worked her up to the utmost pitch of the most salacious excitement,
and at the moment when she spent, in an agony of shrieking extasy, I
poured a perfect flood of spunk right up into her entrails, and we both
sank forward, but without unseating me, quite overpowered by the
intensity of our delight. When we came to our senses I rose from off
her. On withdrawing my prick I found a few traces of blood, but of no
moment. I wiped my prick on a handkerchief, and also wiped between the
cheeks of dear Lizzie's bottom, for fear any tell-tale marks should be
made on her linen. I then helped her up, and she threw her arms round
my neck, and sweetly kissing me, thanked me for a new lesson in love,
which had overwhelmed her with delight.

Thus ended the first lesson that Lizzie ever received by that route of
pleasure, and I may incidentally state that she was peculiarly
constituted for giving and receiving the most exquisite pleasure in
that way. She afterwards developed into a magnificent woman, with one
of the naturally largest and finest backsides I almost ever met with;
and she came to love backward fucking to the utmost extent. In
after-days, when married, she told me that her husband was a muff, who
had no idea of enjoying a woman but in one way. She had often deceived
him, and slipped it into her bottom-hole without his ever having any
suspicion of the sort of pleasure he had given her.

Three months passed with the rapidity of a dream, while we indulged in
these scenes of delicious lubricity and voluptuousness, without ever
attracting any observation within the house and, more curious, without
Miss Evelyn either discovering or suspecting anything between my
sisters and myself--thanks to my natural powers and the unfailing
resources of youth. Both she and my sisters thought they each gave me
as much as I could get through, and, therefore, neither ever imagined I
could seek carnal delights in other arms. So it was but now there
happened one or two events which had a considerable effect on the
after-tenour of our loves.

A neighbour, a very nice good-looking man, about thirty-five years of
age, a gentleman farmer, very well off, had for some time past always
waited for us at the church door on Sundays, apparently for a chat with
mamma, Miss Evelyn, and us. He treated and evidently considered us as
mere children, nor did he appear to fix particular attention to any one.

One Monday my mother received a note from him, to beg she would grant
him a short interview on the following day, as he wished for her advice
on a subject of much interest to him. Mamma's reply begged him to come
at eleven o'clock, when she would be happy to see him.

He came, and was particularly neatly dressed. My mother had been very
agitated all the morning, and looked flushed and nervous as the hour
drew near; I really believe the old lady fancied it was for an idle
avowal to herself that he was coming. Be that however as it may, the
object of his visit turned out to be a proposal to Miss Evelyn, with an
offer of marriage. He was ready to make such settlements upon her as
could not but be satisfactory. He told my mother that before speaking
to Miss Evelyn, whom he had loved from her first appearance in the
parish, and whose quiet, modest character had daily made a deeper
impression, he thought it only his duty to first break the subject to
her, and to ask her permission for an interview with Miss Evelyn, and
next, if he was acceptable to her, for leave to visit at our house,
while courting his wished-for wife. He further stated that he had never
ventured to hint the state of his feelings to Miss Evelyn, and prayed
my mother to be the kind intermediary in opening the subject to her,
and to beg as a favour that she would grant him an interview to state
his case in person on the following day, so that he might learn his
fate from her own lips. My mother, although probably inwardly a little
disappointed, had the interest of Miss Evelyn too much at heart not to
take up the matter warmly, and urged, with all the volubility elderly
ladies can so well exercise, whenever the marriage of a younger friend
is in question, all the benefit that would accrue to her from so
advantageous a proposal. Miss Evelyn was really taken quite by
surprise, and stammered out some vague expressions of wishing for time
to consider.

"Stuff and nonsense, my dear, remember your dependent position, and the
advantages this match holds out to you. You must not think or talk of
delay. He will be here to-morrow, and I hope his lover eloquence will
soon decide the question in his favour."

Poor Miss Evelyn burst into tears and said it was so sudden, and she
was so ill-prepared to take any decision. She would, however, think
over it very seriously and in the morning be better able to give an
answer. My mother seeing that she was much agitated by what she had
told her, very kindly said--

"Give the children a holiday this afternoon, and I advise you to keep
your own room, and write to your widowed mother, to tell her of the
offer, and to ask her advice how you should act."

We thus had many hours to ourselves; I had heard all that had passed,
and felt a sad pressure at my heart, when I began to realise the fact
that the proposal of Mr. Vincent would, if accepted, lead to our
separation, and deprive me of my loved Miss Evelyn. The idea made me
very sad, and I showed no alacrity in taking advantage of our extra
hours of recreation with my sisters, until Mary began to rally me about
my melancholy, and asked what I meant by it. I at once said--

"Don't you see, if Miss Evelyn marries Mr. Vincent we shall get another
governess, and can we ever expect to get one who is so kind and
excellent a teacher, and who troubles us so little at our games."

"Ah! that is very true, and we should be horribly annoyed if we were
watched and interrupted. However, more reason that we should make the
most of the present moment, so come along, Charlie, and let us have
some real good fucking. We have plenty of time, mamma is not very well.
No one will come near us, and there is nothing to hinder our having a
jolly time of it, all three stark naked together, so come along."

Her words had already changed the current of my ideas; before she
ceased speaking my prick responded, which her quick eye immediately
observed, and patting it with her hand, she said--

"Ah! my dear little dummy, I am glad to see you are of my opinion, so
come along."

Away we went, and a most glorious afternoon of orgies we spent.

Miss Evelyn came to me at night and threw herself into my arms, in an
agony of sobs and tears, and pressing me to her throbbing bosom, she
sobbed out--

"Oh! my dear Charlie, I love you so dearly, you have become as
necessary to me as life itself. I cannot bear the thought of parting
from you, my loved one. You, whom I have initiated into all the
delights of mutual love. Oh! the thought of parting is bitter, and
breaks my heart. Oh! love me, my own darling boy, and press me to your
heart."

I did more, for, as I have before stated, a woman's tears have a never
failing effect on the erective nerves of my machine. It was but the
commencement of a night of most luxurious enjoyment. Miss Evelyn put no
restraint either on herself or me, but indulged in every act of
lubricity and voluptuousness were drawing to a close. In fact, when
eventually she left me in the morning, and I thought over all she had
said, it became evident to me that she had already made up her mind to
accept the very advantageous offer made to her. The instinctive
intelligence of woman had at once shown to her that such an opportunity
was not to be lost for the sake of a mere boy, whom circumstances must
naturally soon remove far away from her. At the same time, doubtless,
the idea that I was all her own making, for she never had any suspicion
of my previous initiation, held a charm over her, to say nothing of the
powerful weapon she had so unexpectedly found by her side, and which
had so great an influence over her passions. We spent a most luxurious
night, and hardly closed our eyes, notwithstanding my afternoon's
debauch; such is the power and resources of nature, in a
well-constituted youth of fifteen and upwards, that Miss Evelyn had
rather to force our embraces, than to stimulate by any artificial
excitement my ever ready prick. I won from her a promise to come next
night, and let me know what fate was in store for us.

Next day Mr. Vincent was true to his appointment. Mamma received him
with Miss Evelyn by her side, and after the usual compliments, rose and
apologised for leaving them, as she had household duties to attend to.
Miss Evelyn informed me afterwards that Mr. Vincent, on my mother
leaving the room, rose from his seat, and approaching her, said, in the
most frank gentlemanly manner--

"You are aware, my dear Miss Evelyn, of the object of my visit, and I
augur from your kind condescension in giving me this interview that my
suit is not disagreeable to you."

Then taking her passive hand, and pressing it to his heart, he
continued--

"I have loved you, Miss Evelyn, from the first moment of my seeing you.
I feel that my future happiness hangs on your lips, for without your
love, my life would now be a blank. I am here to-day to offer you my
hand and fortune. If I have not yet your heart, I seek to be allowed to
cultivate your society, that I may try to win it."

Then seeing that she was greatly agitated, he begged her to be seated
(for she had risen when he approached and took her hand), he led her to
a sofa, and seated himself by her side. He pressed for an answer. She
said--

"You must be fully aware, Mr. Vincent, that your generous offer has
taken me greatly by surprise. I feel most grateful to you for it, but
must implore you to allow me to pause, until at least I have heard from
my mother, to whom I will communicate the noble offer you have made to
me, a poor governess, who cannot but feel grateful to you for
condescending to think of her in such a way."

"Ah! say not so, my dear Miss Evelyn, and believe me, it is no sudden
impulse that has driven me to your feet, but ardent love, and real
admiration of your great beauty and admirable conduct ever since you
entered this family."

The dear creature smiled through her tears upon me when she recounted
those terms of affection that Mr. Vincent poured out to her.

To be brief--before they parted he won from her that his frequent
meetings at church, and elsewhere, had gained him something more than
esteem, but hopeless of ever becoming his wife, she had done her utmost
to suppress warmer feelings. Oh! woman, thy name is deception! So she
sent him away the happiest man in existence. He rode over every day
afterwards, and was with Miss Evelyn from four to five; indeed, he was
often the cause of our having half an hour's longer recreation. He also
frequently dined with us. Miss Evelyn's mother naturally jumped at the
offer, and most delightedly gave her consent.

When Mr. Vincent heard of this, be became very urgent in claiming an
early day for making him the happiest of men. Miss Evelyn wanted a
delay of six weeks, but this raised such an outcry on his part,
seconded by my mother, that at last she was driven from six weeks to a
month, and then to a fortnight from that date; so all became extremely
busy in getting ready marriage dresses, &c. The marriage was to take
place from our house, and my mother insisted that she should provide
the marriage breakfast. Mrs. Evelyn was invited to our house for a week
at the time of the marriage, to keep my mother company. My two sisters
and a young sister of Mr. Vincent's were to be the bridesmaids, and a
young man, courting Miss Vincent, to be bridegroom's man. So all was
thus arranged, and eventually came off most happily. When Mrs. Evelyn
arrived she occupied the spare room, where charming Mrs. Benson had so
deliciously initiated me in all the pleasures of sensuality and passion.

To return to the day when Mr. Vincent had his first interview, and
declared his love and admiration, and ended with the offer of marriage.
Before going away, he rang for mamma, thanked her for all her kindness
to him, informed her how happy Miss Evelyn had made him in granting
permission to prosecute his suit for her hand, &c. Then begging the
favour of a chaste kiss, he left all radiant with hope.

The interview had naturally been very trying tor Miss Evelyn, and she
was so evidently nervously agitated that my mother begged her to go to
her room, and lie down to repose herself, as after so much agitation
she must be quite unfit for any school work, and that she herself would
hear our lessons that morning and give us an afternoon's holiday in
honour of the happy event that had occurred.

We thus, my sisters and I, were thrown again into another prolonged
opportunity of fully enjoying ourselves, but, notwithstanding the
wonderfully regenerative power that nature had gifted me with, I felt
that if I wanted to enjoy again my dear Miss Evelyn, who had promised
to be with me that night. I must not only restrain myself from such
excess as we had indulged in the previous day, but also manage to get
some sleep, of which I had scarcely tasted the night before, so I
contented myself with first gamahuching and then fucking each sister;
afterwards again gamahuching them, and making them each spend five
times, so as to satisfy them without exhausting myself, and then
finishing off with a delicious fuck in Lizzie's bottom-hole, while each
gamahuched the other. This quite satisfied them, and they allowed me to
steal up to my room to sleep, Mary promising to call me in time for
tea. I slept the sleep of the just for some three hours, and came to
tea perfectly ready for anything that could happen that night. It was
well it was so, for now that there could not be any long lapse of time
before we must part, Miss Evelyn became a very glutton for pleasure,
and every art and position was made use of to stimulate and lengthen
out our joys. She came every night, even up to the very night before
the marriage, although in the last three nights before the event came
off, her mother, Mrs. Evelyn, slept in the spare bedroom with which my
room communicated. Nevertheless, we met and carried on our amorous
sports with bated breath and suppressed sighs.

We had of late often tried in our moments of greatest excitement to
introduce my prick into her delicious tight little bottom-hole. Once,
by a sudden manoeuvre, I managed to get in at the moment she was
spending, and actually made an entrance as far as about two inches
beyond the nut, and I think I should have fully succeeded at that time
if my own excitement had not made me spend too soon. This oiled the
way, and my prick, having already fucked several times, becoming too
limp, the squeeze of her bottom actually forced him out, as if she were
voiding herself naturally. I fancied that, at the moment, but for my
too excited passion, she would have rather I had completely initiated
her. However, the night preceding her marriage, I at last succeeded. We
had fucked in every varied way. She was on her knees, with her head on
the pillow, and I on my knees, behind her; this was a favourite way of
hers, as she declared I got further in, nay, seemed to touch her heart
and fill her whole body; besides the frigging her clitoris and the
action of my finger in her bottom-hole added greatly to the raptures
this position gave her. She had been already well fucked, and we had
mutually gamahuched each other, so her whole system was in a most
excited and well-moistened state. Taking care to put two fingers at
once into her bottom-hole, I worked them so as to stretch it as much as
possible, while exciting her with my prick in her cunt, and a finger on
her clitoris. Just as she was going into the raptures of spending I
dropped from my mouth a quantity of saliva onto her bottom-hole, and as
she was pushing her buttocks back to me I suddenly withdrew my prick,
and with one vigorous thrust housed him half his length in her
delicious bum-hole. She almost cried out aloud at the suddenness of the
attack, and would have flinched away but for the grasp of both my hands
upon her hips; a more vigorous shove sent me up to the hilt against her
beautiful buttocks. She whispered--

"For heaven's sake, dear Charles, do stop a moment, I can't bear it,
and must cry out if you do not be quiet for a time at least."

As I was safely fixed, it exactly suited me to remain still, for had I
gone on, a push or two would have made me spend. Now fairly engulphed,
I wished not only to fully enjoy it myself but, if possible, make her
enjoy it too. So remaining quite still, as far as regarded my prick, I
stole one hand down to her clitoris, and began to excite that; the
other I ran up to her bubbies, and played with the nipples, a thing
which I had found out excited her almost as much as playing with her
clitoris. Her passions were soon reawakened, and the involuntary
twistings of her loins and pressures of her sphincter convinced me that
in a very short time I should work her up to the utmost; and so it was,
and immensely she enjoyed both her own spend and mine when she felt my
hot spunk shooting up into her very entrails. We sunk gently on our
sides after this bout, but without unsheathing me; and here embracing,
kissing and tonguing each other when she turned her head, and sometimes
sucking the nearest nipple to me, we soon once more were in a state to
renew our delicious combat; and a second course was run in the
delightful callipygian recesses of Venus's second temple of lubricity.
This was our last bout, for, alas, it was getting the hour when the
house would be all astir. My lovely mistress embraced me most tenderly,
and acknowledged that I had at last taught her a new pleasure. She wept
as she tore herself from my arms, and I wept too when she left me, as I
thought I had now lost her for ever as a mistress, and what a charming
one she had been to me!

Morning came, and with it bridesmaids, bridegroom, and man. To church
we all went, my sisters perfectly enchanted with the idea of being
bridesmaids, and beautifully arrayed in new dresses. They were also
still more delighted with some handsome jewelry presented by Mr.
Vincent. In their eyes he became the handsomest and finest man they had
ever seen. The breakfast went off as usual, and when the bride, who had
changed her bridal dress for a neat travelling one, came down, pretty
near all were in tears on taking leave of her. She pressed me tenderly
to her bosom, and whispered--

"Courage, Charlie, dear."

It was almost too much for me, but I managed to restrain any extreme
demonstration of my grief. The carriage door was shut, and off they
rattled to spend the honeymoon at Leamington. The friends assembled
remained until the evening, and after the sensations of the day, and
the fatigues of the previous night, I was glad to get to bed. I cried
myself to sleep, thinking that another at that moment was revelling in
all the delights of amorous enjoyment of those charms that had been so
long in my sole possession.

Thus ended one of the most delightful episodes of my life, and although
I, at some rare intervals, from time to time found an opportunity of
enjoying my loved mistress, they were flying fucks, very delicious, but
very unsatisfactory.

This was the first great incident that had an effect of changing the
tenour of our existence for some time, but I will reserve the details
of our after-adventures for a second part of these reminiscences of
Early Experiences.



END OF VOL. I.





VOLUME II



CONTENTS



Mr. James MacCallum--Mrs. Vincent--Miss Frankland--Miss F., Mary, and
Eliza--Doctor and Mrs. Brownlow--



The house was scarcely itself even the day after the marriage. Mrs.
Evelyn was still with us, and did not leave until the following day.
She and my mother spent most of the day in the summer house, so that
our pastimes therein were interrupted. Mary complained of severe
headache, which, in fact, was the premonitory symptom of her courses,
which declared themselves violently in the evening. I had arranged with
my sisters to steal up to their room when all were asleep, as now that
we had lost our governess they had it all to themselves. I went, of
course, but found only Eliza capable of entering into our sensual
enjoyments. I made her come to me in Miss Evelyn's bed, and while
fucking her, was thinking all the time of my darling governess; and
even when I was fucking her I could only remember the complete
insertion of my prick into Miss Evelyn's bum-hole the very night before
her marriage, and wondered whether or not her husband had discovered
her loss of maidenhead. And yet, I fancied woman's natural cunning
would easily deceive him, as millions before him have been deceived.
Coupling Mary's attack and Miss Evelyn's choice of the marriage day on
the full moon, I could not help imagining that she intended to help her
deception by the advent of her menstruation. It will be seen hereafter
how far I was correct in my conjecture. I passed a delicious night in
the arms of my charming Lizzie, and only stole away just in time not to
be observed by the early-rising servants. Mrs. Evelyn departed the next
day. My mother, feeling poorly, desired Lizzie to sleep with her, so
perforce I had to pass a very quiet night, but which the agitation and
excessive venery of the last week rendered very acceptable.

Another week passed without anything particular beyond Mary being able
to join Lizzie and me in our orgies. The doctor had recommended my
mother to go for a few weeks to the seaside, and she resolved that we
should all go for six weeks before engaging a new governess. So we left
town for a charming little retired village on the west Welsh coast. It
was but a small place, with one street, and some straggling houses here
and there, but with a beautiful stretch of sand ending in abrupt rocks.
Our lodgings were but small; a sitting-room and bedroom above a shop,
and two rooms over that. I slept in the small back room off the
sitting-room, my mother had the front upper room, and my two sisters
were in the room beside her, with only a thin partition between them,
so we found ourselves obliged to seek for some outside place to enjoy
the erotic pleasures that had now become necessary to us. Very few
visitors ever came near the retired little village. In our explorations
we found that at the far end of the sands there were some nice retired
spots behind the rocks, which soon became the scenes of our sensual
enjoyments. The place was more than a mile from the village, and we
could see if any one was coming towards us for the whole distance; but
still as we might forget how fast time flies, we prudently established
either one or the other of my sisters as a sentinel to give us warning
if any one was approaching. So I took them in turn, laid them down, had
a mutual gamahuche, and then a fuck; after which the previous watcher
took the place of the one just fucked, and the same process was
followed in her case. We had done this for three days, and were
congratulating ourselves upon having found out so safe a place to
indulge all our propensities in. We always spent the mornings with
mamma, who kept us so far to our lessons, but after our midday meal,
which mamma also made her dinner hour, she retired for a siesta, and we
went out for a long walk and something better. I have said we fully
enjoyed the first three days without any apparent chance of discovery.
On the fourth, while Lizzie was on the watch in front, and Mary and I
after a delicious gamahuche had just died away in all the ecstasies of
a prolonged fuck up to the moment of discharge, and I was saying to
her--

"Did not that feel delicious, and was it not up to the hilt?''

"I should think so, with such a rammer as that up her cunt," said a
strange voice close to us.

You may easily suppose how we startled with surprise.

"Oh, don't do that, I did not mean to spoil sport," said the same voice.

It was a very gentlemanly man, with a soft quiet voice, and charming
amiable expression of countenance, who stood smiling upon us close to
our side, with his breeches open, and his standing pego in his hand. So
great was our surprise that we never thought of the state we were in.
Mary lay with legs spread out, and belly exposed, and cunt gaping open;
and I with my breeches down, and my great big cock pendent, it is true,
but hardly diminished in thickness. The stranger said again--

"I am not here to spoil sport, on the contrary, to aid you in every
way. I accidentally observed you two days ago. I am here, a stranger,
like yourselves. I know you to be brother and sisters, and admire you
all the more for being above the usual prejudices of that relationship.
But you must be aware that as I know all about you, the best way is to
let me be a participator in your sport; and then you not only shut my
mouth, but it will be the means of vastly adding to all your pleasures,
as well as giving me the most intense satisfaction. Now, for instance,
your elder sister there, who was about to replace the younger on the
watch, will be all the more satisfied, if I first fuck her. Don't be
alarmed, my dear," said he, as he observed a sudden move of Mary, who
all at once recollected how exposed her whole person was. "I shall do
nothing without your full consent, but I am quite sure your brother,
who takes you each in turn, will rather be pleased than otherwise, to
see you in my arms, or I much mistake his character."

I could not help, internally, thinking how exactly be had hit off my
very thought, for I had just been calculating, in my own mind, how much
better it would be for us to make him a participator with us, rather
than an enemy by a refusal. So I at once averred that as it had turned
out, it was likely to add greatly to all our pleasure, and I begged
Mary to let him have his way. The natural reluctance of woman to appear
too easy of access made her simulate a refusal, but as she still lay on
her back, I leant over her, and opening her legs, begged him to kneel
between and help himself. He gallantly, on kneeling, first stooped
forward, and gave a good lick-up of all her cunt's spunk-covered lips,
and then proceeded to gamahuche her, which quickly made her as anxious
for his prick as he was to fuck her. As soon as they were fairly at it,
I whistled, and beckoned to Lizzie to come up. You may easily imagine
her surprise to see Mary in the arms of a strange man; but as the sight
had had its usual effect on my sensitive organ, and as it was standing,
almost ready to burst, I made her kneel opposite to them, and
introduced my prick into her cunt from behind, so that we could both
see the delicious fuck going on before us. It redoubled our excitement,
and all four of us spent together in cries of rapture. After this bout
we sat down to make further acquaintance, which, you may suppose, was
not difficult, after such an introduction. Our new friend gave us some
hints very useful for future proceedings, meanwhile he was feeling
young Lizzie's cunt with one hand, and my prick with the other, very
nicely and gently frigging it. He brought me to full stand very
quickly, and then made me lie on my back, while he proceeded to admire
and praise the extraordinary development which he declared was the
greatest for one of my age he had ever met with, and his experience was
very extensive. When it was at full stand, he stooped forward, and in
the most delicious manner sucked my prick. It was more exciting than
when either of my sisters, Miss Evelyn, or Mrs. Benson had gamahuched
me. He also inserted a finger in my bottom-hole, and eventually made me
spend in his mouth, which he greedily swallowed, nor did he cease
sucking until every drop was drawn out of me. This had, of course,
excited him, and he said--

"Now, I must have the young one in her turn."

Lizzie, nothing loath, lay down on the grass at once, I conducted his
prick into her cunt, and frigged his bottom-hole, while their bout
lasted. His prick was one of the middlings, hot very long, nor very
thick, but of a uniform size throughout, without any large projection
of the nut, like mine. He advised us to stop for that day, and to walk
towards the village with him, and then when in full sight, but far
beyond hearing, we could sit down and concert measures for future
pleasures of the most delicious lubricity.

"I see," he said, "that we shall just hit it. I shall greatly add to
your pleasures, and you to mine; you have something yet to learn, and I
am the very person to instruct you in even higher delights than any of
you have yet enjoyed."

We followed him as desired, and, seated on a sand hillock, we held a
long conversation, and arranged everything for future indulgencies. We
agreed to meet at the rocks next day at our usual hour, he undertaking
to be there ahead of us, to see that no lurking stranger should have
hidden himself as he had done that day. He would think over the matter
in the meantime, and contrive some way of meeting where we could be
fully at ease, and strip ourselves naked, so as to enjoy a complete
orgie of the most salacious lubricity. He showed us where he was
lodged, a small inn a little way out of the village with its front to
the road, and behind the stables there was attached to it a small
cottage, consisting of a bedroom above, with a dressing-room, or small
bedroom if necessary, over the passage; the door opened upon the coast,
and there was no other communication with the inn than by going round
past the stable yard to the front door. The servant of the inn came
round in the morning, and laid his modest breakfast of tea, eggs and
toast, and when he was done, cleared away and made his bed, &c. He took
his dinner in the inn parlour at the hour the landlord and family
dined. Nothing overlooked his windows, and he was sufficiently away
from the village not to be easily observed, still less so from the inn;
so that on approaching his lodgings from the sands he was almost as
safe from observation as if he had lived in a lonely house far distant
from any other. I am thus particular in describing his lodgings, as the
advantages of the situation afterwards induced us to turn them to a
profitable use. Our friend's name was MacCallum, James MacCallum, an
offshoot of the great Scotch clan of that name, then in about his
thirtieth year, fond of sporting, particularly fishing. His room was
surrounded with the necessary implements, and he much frequented Wales
from its advantage of possessing so many good trout streams. He it was
who gave me a taste for the piscatory art, and I afterwards accompanied
him on many a fishing excursion, which often led to new and singular
erotic adventures, of which I may, perhaps, hereafter recount a few.
His ordinary residence was London, and our present acquaintance led to
some most intimate relations of true erotic extravagance, of which more
anon.

Meanwhile we met at the rocks on the next day, a Saturday. We found Mr.
MacCallum at his post, and all being secure, proceeded to action. It
was Mary's turn to take the first watch. Our friend constituted himself
master of the ceremonies. He desired me to take off my breeches, and
Lizzie to take off her gown and ease her corset, for as yet she wore no
stays; then telling me to lie down on my back, he made Lizzie kneel at
my head, with her bottom to me, and then to press back so as to bring
her charming little cunt over my mouth, her under-petticoat and chemise
being well canted over her shoulders. I thus had complete command of
her clitoris with my tongue, and she could sink her buttocks quite down
on my face, so that I could shove my tongue well up her cunt, and lick
up all her spendings when she discharged; and at the same time, while
embracing the charming plump hard buttocks with one hand, the other was
left free to frig her bum-hole, and stimulate her passions up to the
utmost. I have already told you how naturally she had taken to
posterior pleasures. While thus engaged, Mr. MacCallum proceeded to
gamahuche my prick in the most delicious manner, for he had an art in
this delightful accomplishment that far exceeded that of the many by
whom I have been gamahuched--of course, he added the _postilion_, as
the French say, by frigging my bottom-hole at the same time. He made
me most voluptuously discharge in his mouth at the very instant dear
Lizzie was pouring into mine her delicious spendings. We lay enraptured
for some time before we could stir. Then rising, I wished to return the
compliment Mr. M. had paid my prick, by sucking his. But this he
declined, saying--

"I shall teach you all a new pleasure before we part, and my powers are
not quite so active as your youth enables you to be, so for the moment
we will indulge in close observation and sweet caresses of our members
until by gentle titillations I get you two more prepared for the
amorous contest--"

He gamahuched Lizzie while handling my prick, and a very short period
elapsed before he had us both in such a state of excitement that we
were ready for anything he chose to direct. This time he also required
me to lie down on my back, but he placed Lizzie on the top of me, and
guided my prick himself into her delicious tight little notch. When
fully inserted, which was completely accomplished before she quite lay
down upon me, he desired us to go slowly to work. For a short time,
with his face close to my cods, he watched the in and out movement of
my prick, inserting a finger into both Lizzie's bottom and mine. Then
rising, he said--

"Stop a little, my dears, but don't withdraw. I am about to give your
sister a lesson in the double action of most delicious pleasure."

Then spitting on his prick, and applying a quantity of saliva to the
rosy orifice of her bottom, he proceeded to insert his prick--little
thinking how fond she was of taking pleasure in this route, and how
often she had already enjoyed it. He took every precaution not to hurt
her, and to be as gentle as possible, telling her to push out her
bottom, and to strain as if she wanted to void something, which he told
her would facilitate his entrance, and give her less pain. You may
imagine how secretly pleased Lizzie was; she did all he desired--and
with great gentleness he succeeded in sheathing his prick up to the
close junction of his belly against her buttocks.

"Capital, my dear, you have borne it admirably. I see you will make an
apt scholar; now you will have nothing but the most ecstatic raptures
from the action of two pricks at once. Now, Charles, it is for you to
work, and for your most charming sister to continue only the exquisite
pressures she is already at this moment so rapturously conferring on
our excited members."

We thus commenced the first lesson we ever had in the double fuck. Dear
Lizzie was almost mad with the agonising sensations of rapturous
pleasure the double thrusting produced upon her erotic nerves. I, too,
felt the rubbing of Mr. M.'s prick so closely upon mine, for the slight
membrane dividing the bottom passage from the vagina, by the powerful
stretching of the two members between which it was sandwiched, became
so thin a division that it really appeared as if there was nothing
between our pricks. Such ecstatic excitement brought matters to a
speedy conclusion. Lizzie screamed so loudly with her excess of
pleasure that it somewhat alarmed Mary, who came running up to see what
was the matter. Her surprise was great at the sight she beheld, but we
were far too deliriously wrapt in the lap of most salacious luxury and
lubricity to be sensible to any interruption. As for Lizzie she was in
convulsions of ecstasy, which ended in quite a hysteric attack which
rather alarmed us, and made us withdraw from the exquisite sheaths in
which we had been engulphed with such rapture. It was some time before
dear Lizzie recovered her senses, and then she burst into tears,
declaring she had never before known what pleasure meant, and she had
been in the seventh heaven of delight, that she could wish for no
better death than to die in such agony of pleasure. She then threw
herself into Mr. M.'s arms, and kissing him with the utmost fervour,
said--

"Oh, you dear man, how I love you for teaching me such a delicious way
of loving; you shall have me whenever and wherever you please. I shall
love you as much as I do my darling brother Charlie."

She then turned to me and warmly embraced me too. Then, putting on her
gown, she proceeded to take up the watch, while Mary remained to be
likewise initiated in the luxury of the double fuck. She somewhat
dreaded the experiment, but having witnessed the ecstasies of pleasure
it had thrown Lizzie into, she was not unwilling to try if it could be
accomplished with Mr. MacCallum's somewhat less massive member. He put
us through the same preliminary manoeuvres of backing Mary on her knees
over my mouth, and while he sucked my prick, he feasted his eyes at the
same time on Mary's really finely developed buttocks, giving him
promise of great after-pleasure. He even begged me to leave her
bottom-hole to his finger so that he frigged the bum-hole of the sister
while he sucked the prick of the brother, a combination which afforded
him the most racy delight, Mary was greatly excited, and spent most
copiously in my mouth, while I quickly followed suit in the mouth of
Mr. M., who did not allow a drop to be wasted. When we had reposed
ourselves sufficiently, his lascivious touches and caresses and praises
of our parts soon sufficiently re-excited us to let him see if we might
again proceed to action. As before, I lay down on my back, and Mary,
straddling across me, had my prick guided into her longing cunt by the
hand of Mr. M. When I was fairly engulphed in her hot and throbbing
cunt, she began her exquisite _casse-noisette_ pressures, which talent
she possessed in the greatest perfection; then bending down to me I
clasped her in my arms, and glued my lips to hers in a loving kiss and
tongue embrace. Her bottom presented itself in all its beauty to our
worthy master of the ceremonies, who, delighted with its more fully
blown beauties than that of the younger sister, paid first due homage
to it by fondly kissing it, and thrusting his tongue up the rosy
orifice, titillating her excessively, then wetting his prick he applied
it to the tender rosebud-like dimple at first without success, Mary
telling him she did not think he could possibly succeed.

"Patience and perseverance, my dear girl," said he, "will enable me to
get into a mouse; we must try another way; it is that great huge
monster of a prick in your cunt that is so blocking up the route as to
close almost entirely the way to the more secret temple of salacious
delights. Withdraw for a moment."

I did so; upon which he plunged in an instant up to the hilt in her
cunt and gave a few shoves to excite her and throw her off her guard,
for he told us afterwards, the first difficulty was all owing to Mary's
involuntary opposition, by squeezing in her bottom-hole, instead of
pushing it out. When he thought he had sufficiently excited her, and
made her suppose he was going to continue regularly fucking her, he
suddenly withdrew the two fingers he had in her bum-hole, by a jerk
substituted his prick, and before Mary was aware, had sheathed it more
than halfway into her bottom. She gave a half scream, but his hold of
her hips, and my close embrace of her waist, for I all along knew what
he was at, prevented her from flinching and throwing him out, which was
her first impulse. He said--

"I will keep still, and any unpleasant feeling will go off in a moment."

He stopped for two or three minutes, which I occupied in first rubbing
the end of my prick on Mary's clitoris, which was a well-developed one,
and when by her nervous movements I found her passions were being
roused, I slipped it into her tightened cunt without much difficulty.
Mr. M. took the opportunity of finding me penetrating to glide in on
his point of attack up to his utmost limit. Mary gasped again, and
declared it was choking her. However, by a little more patience, and
then by very gentle movements, we gradually worked her up to the utmost
state of excitement, and she, as well as both of us, went off in a
delirium of enraptured felicity. She lay panting and throbbing between
us for nearly a quarter of an hour.

I was already in a state for renewed efforts, but Mr. M. rose, and
withdrew his reeking prick from the tight recess in which it had
enjoyed such ecstasies, and told us we must be content with that day's
work, expressly as he had a plan in his head for the next day, that
would require us to have all our erotic powers at command. Then, as
before, we approached the village, so as to be seen, but not overheard,
so that our going away to more distant places should create no
suspicion. Mr. M. then informed us that we could come to his cottage
the next afternoon, instead of the rocks; we should be able to undress
ourselves in the buff, and have a perfect orgie of salacious delights.
We heartily approved of this plan, and after an amusing conversation,
we parted to meet the next day on the sands, but in the contrary
directions to the rocks, for the purpose of afterwards approaching his
cottage from the least observable site.

After dinner the next day we started at our usual hour apparently for
our ordinary promenade, but after leaving the village, and allowing
most of the people to be safely stowed away in church for the afternoon
service, we turned on our steps and made for Mr. M.'s door. He saw us
coming, and was ready to admit us, without knocking. We immediately
adjourned to the bedroom upstairs, and lost no time in all of us
stripping stark naked. After some preliminary admiration of the two
girls, whose forms were certainly cast in beauty's mould, we lay down
in bed. I and Lizzie mutually gamahuched each other, with the usual
accompaniments in the charming orifices of our bottoms. Mr. MacCallum
and Mary, for he had taken a great fancy to her and her splendid
bottom, followed our example, After we had a happy and most delicious
spend, and then mutual embraces and kisses, we put the girls into all
conceivable poses, until we were once more ready to go on with
something more serious than gamahuching. Mr. M., as usual, acted as
master of the ceremonies, and ordered Mary to lie down on her back,
then Lizzie reversed upon her, so that she could gamahuche Mary's cunt,
and tickle her bum-hole, while Mary was to frig Lizzie's clitoris with
one hand, and play with my cods with the other, Mr. M. himself guided
my prick into the delicious bottom-hole of Lizzie, and when we were all
fixed, and he had frigged my bum-hole with two fingers, he said--

"Now I am going to initiate you, Charlie, into the delight of being
alike operator and receiver."

So saying, he moistened his tool and spit in my bum-hole, and proceeded
very gently to introduce his prick therein. I have described his cock
as not very thick at the point, consequently the first part introduced
itself very easily, but when the pillar pushed its way in, and began to
stretch the parts, it produced a curious sickening feeling, very like
as if I had received a kick on the bottom; so I was obliged to ask him
to halt a little. He was too experienced in the art not to fully
understand my feelings, and knew well it would go off in a minute or
two, if I was left quiet. So pausing until I told him he might now try
to get in further, he drew back a little and applying more spittle to
the shaft, gently and firmly, and slowly guided his prick up to the
hilt, or as far as his belly and my buttocks would allow. Again pausing
a little, until feeling by the throbbing of my prick, which produced
the same pressure on my bum-hole, that I was warming to the work, he
began slow movements of thrusts in and out, which, together with the
hot and voluptuous pressures and movements of my own little partner
excited both by Mary's finger and my prick, began to fire my passions,
and we soon grew very fierce in our movements. Nothing I could ever
have imagined equalled the extraordinary and delicious ecstasy that the
double action produced upon my erotic nerves. I gasped, I shuddered
with the agony of intense pleasure, and at the moment when the grand
and rapturous finale approached, I actually brayed exactly like a
donkey, which, in after cooler moments, amused all of us. The action of
pleasure had come upon all at once, and we sank in an inert mass on
those below us. How poor Mary endured it astonished us, but the scene
had so excited her that she said it never occurred to her, and she felt
nothing. We eventually rose, and after a necessary purification,
partook of wine and cake, which Mr. MacCallum, with great foresight,
had provided. After that he would not allow us to fuck for some time;
and we had a regular romp all about the room, which we enjoyed very
much, and nothing was heard but slaps on our bottoms, and the wildest
rollicking laughter--until our two cocks, by their stiff-standing,
showed that we were again ready to enter on new combats. This time
Lizzie lay down, Mary gamahuched her. Mr. M. got into her bum-hole, and
I proceeded to attempt to do the same to him, but all to no purpose. I
was too heavy hung for his bottom-hole, a very small one for a man. He
had every wish to accommodate me, but do what I would, I could not
overcome the physical difficulties. So reversing our positions, I lay
on my back, Mary straddled over me, my prick was put into her cunt, and
stooping down, and presenting her anus, M. succeeded more easily than
the day before in getting into her bum-hole. Lizzie standing up with a
leg on each side of Mary's and my body, brought her quim up to M.'s
mouth, and he luxuriously gamahuched her, while his finger acted
_postilion_ in her bottom. The erotic storm raged with great fury for a
long time, and then, growing more fast and furious, brought us all
standing in ecstasies of the most salacious enjoyment, for us to sink
once more into the annihilation of satiated desire. We lay long wrapped
in close embrace. Recovering our senses in long-drawn sighs, we again
refreshed ourselves with wine and cake, and as our passions were not so
quickly reawakened as those of our more excitable companions, we
proceeded to gamahuche them, without their exercising a like skill upon
our pricks. We then had another romp, and replacing Mary below and
Lizzie above, I, this time, fucked her cunt, at her request, as she
said it must not be altogether neglected. M., as previously, took me
behind, and as there was a greater facility, so there was greater
enjoyment, and as our previous exertions had taken off the sharper
appetite, we were enabled to draw out our pleasure to a much greater
length, until at last we died away in all the agony of such a glorious
conjunction of parts. We had one more delicious general fuck before we
parted. Lizzie was again fucked by me, and buggered by Mr. M., which
she declared she preferred to any other combination, my prick so
deliriously gorging her tight little cunt, and making M.'s prick, from
the pressure of my larger weapon in the cunt, feel as tight in her
bottom as my prick did, when nothing but Mary's finger was in her cunt.
We ran our course with even greater luxury and lasciviousness than
before. Lizzie actually was hysterical with the force of her enjoyment,
and we all sank sideways off poor Mary, and lay long locked in each
other's arms. This, for that day, ended our most delightful orgie. We
purified ourselves, and then dressed. We parted with many sweet
embraces, and promises of renewing the delightful scenes we had just
gone through, and, in fact, we often and often repeated them, varying
from time to time with a visit to the rocks, lest we should draw
observation upon us by constantly going to the cottage.

Our six weeks came to an end so rapidly that we could hardly believe
the time had already passed. Mamma one morning informed us we were to
leave on the day after the next. You may suppose our disappointment,
but there was no help for it. We met that day at the rocks, we were
melancholy at the thought of parting with our charming friend, whom we
now really loved. We were not near so fiery as usual, but resolved to
have one thorough good orgie the next day at the cottage, as a farewell
benefit to us all. We met, as agreed on, and put in force every art to
augment our pleasures, and every contrivance to excite anew our powers
to the utmost. Both M. and I must have spent six to seven times, but
the girls being more easily excited in their finer organs of coition,
went off in ecstasies some nine or ten times; until fairly exhausted,
we had, from want of power, to give up the game, dress and part. We
hoped to meet again. The girls wept at parting with our delightful
friend, to whom we owed so many delicious orgies. We exchanged
addresses, and he promised to come on a fishing excursion to our
neighbourhood, where he hoped we should find means of renewing the
lascivious sports we had already so much enjoyed. We tore ourselves
away from him at last. It will be seen in the sequel, that unforeseen
events carried me to London, or rather away from home, before we could
meet again; and it was in London, at his own chambers, where we again
renewed our charming intercourse, and practised every art of venery.

We returned home, and mamma again advertised for a governess, and
stated that she required one of not less than thirty years of age, and
with much experience in teaching. Numerous responses were made to the
advertisement; but one lady desired to see mamma and her pupils before
accepting the place, at the same time forwarding very satisfactory
testimonials. Mamma was rather struck with the style of letter, and the
unusual demand of previous acquaintance before entering into final
arrangements. So she wrote to Miss Frankland, begging her to come and
spend three days with us, and if her visit should prove as agreeable to
both as her letter had done to mamma, she had no doubt matters might be
arranged to their mutual satisfaction. Accordingly, at the expected
hour, Miss Frankland arrived. She was, to our then thinking, an elderly
lady, rather above thirty years of age than under, of tall and
commanding figure, somewhat large, but no superfluous fat, broad
shouldered, and wide hipped, with bosoms well separated, but not too
prominent. Her hair was coal black, and her eyes equally so, but with
the most determined expression, rendered more so by very thick
eyebrows, which met in the middle. She showed also a well marked downy
moustache, and the small curly hairs below her head, at the back of her
neck, literally lost themselves beneath her high-necked dress. She
always wore long sleeves, and never showed bare arms. I afterwards
found the reason of this was that her arms were so black with thick
hair that she was ashamed to let them be seen, although, in reality,
beautifully formed and plump. Her mouth was large; it showed animal
passion, but at the same time determined firmness of character. You
could not call her handsome, but there was altogether an appearance of
face, expression, and person that might well be styled a fine woman. As
for us, at the period of first seeing her, we only marked the
determined character of her countenance, and at once dreaded her
becoming our governess, as we felt we should not only have one who
would master us, but who would also be severe in every way. Youth is
often a better physiognomist than it is credited with. It will be seen
in the sequel whether we had judged correctly or not. Suffice it to say
that her three days' visit ended in her being perfectly satisfied with
the offered position, and mamma being equally satisfied with her. We
did not know at the time, but afterwards found out, that she had made
it a _sine qua non_ that she should have carte blanche as to the use of
the rod. She had observed to mamma that she thought we had been too
leniently treated by our late governess, and it would be necessary to
exert severe discipline, which, in her own experience, she had always
found most efficacious. My mother, who had during the last two months
found us rather headstrong and wilful, quite chimed in with her idea,
and gave every authority to do quite as she liked, either with her
girls or her son.

Terms being so arranged, Miss Frankland required a week to make all her
arrangements before definitely taking up her new residence. My mother,
thinking we should be well kept in on the arrival of Miss Frankland,
left us in uninterrupted liberty until then, you may be sure we
improved the occasion, and did our best to make up for the loss of our
inestimable and amiable friend, Mr. MacCallum. Not only did we make use
of the summer house by day, but every night I stole up to my loved
sisters' room, where we tried to emulate the luxurious scenes of
lubricity we had lately been so deliriously indulging in at the seaside
in Wales. Of course, the week passed far too quickly, and on the
appointed day my mother drove into the town to bring Miss Frankland
home, on the arrival of the coach. My two sisters accompanied her, as
something or other was always wanted for the girls; and as Miss
Frankland and her luggage would quite fill the carriage on their
return, I was left by myself at home, a most fortunate circumstance, as
it turned out.

I was somewhat annoyed at being left alone. But how true it is that
"man proposes and God disposes." Had I gone with them I should have
missed a most delicious and unexpected treat. I had strolled to the
summer house in a sort of despair at the lost opportunity of again
fucking my sisters before the arrival of the dreaded governess. I was
listlessly gazing out of the window when I suddenly became aware of a
lady waving her hand to me from a gig coming down the road which our
summer house commanded. In an instant I recognised Mrs. Vincent. To run
down the hillock, unbolt the private door, and welcome her to our
house, was the work of a moment. I begged her to get out and walk to
the house through the grounds, her servant could drive round to the
stables and wait there. She did so at once. I never said a word of all
being absent until I had her safe in the summer house. Without a word I
seized her round the waist, and pressing her back on the couch, quickly
unbuttoned my trousers, and pulling up her petticoats, was pushing my
stiff prick against her belly before she was almost aware of my
intentions.

"My dear Charlie," she cried, "what are you at? We shall be discovered,
and it will be my ruin."

"Oh, no, my ever loved Mrs. Vincent; they are all away to town, and we
have nothing to fear."

She loved me too well to make further resistance; on the contrary,
seconding me with all her accustomed art, we both quickly sunk in all
the voluptuous raptures of satisfied desire. I would not quit my
position, but kissing her rapturously, I shoved my tongue into her
mouth, and stopped her remonstrances. The excitement of meeting her
after a two months' separation stimulated my passions to the utmost,
and with hardly bated breath I began a fresh career, but with more
moderation and greater pains to make her a perfect participant in the
raptures I myself was receiving. She thoroughly enjoyed it, and being
relieved from any fear of surprise, after my informing her of the
absence of all the family, she gave way to all the force of her ardent
amorous propensities, enjoyed our delicious fuck thoroughly, and spent
at the same time as myself with screams of satiated passion. After this
I withdrew. She kissed me most tenderly, and said I was as bad and wild
a boy as ever, that she loved me too tenderly ever to refuse me
anything I desired, and begged me to sit by her side and talk of old
times.

"No," I said, "on the contrary, tell me all about yourself; I have not
seen you since your marriage day, and I want to know how the after-part
went off. I was in dread lest our embracings should have left traces
that would make your husband suspect you were not all he had
anticipated."

"You are a strange boy, my dear Charlie, and more of a man in every way
than many ten years older than yourself. Who would have thought such
ideas would have been running through so young a head. Well, my darling
boy, I was somewhat uneasy on that very point myself, and, indeed, had
fixed the marriage day when I expected I should be unwell on the very
night, but in that I was disappointed; nothing came, and I was driven
to act in the best way I could. I kept my legs close together. I got my
hand down to that part of my person, and kept squeezing my affair as
close as possible. I pressed hard with my fingers on his weapon as he
forced an entrance, and all at once gave way with a scream of apparent
pain, as he gave an extra thrust, and let him penetrate at once. An
inexperienced husband takes much on credit and imagination, I quite
satisfied him that he was the first possessor of my person; but, oh! my
beloved Charlie, I found I was really ready in the family-way, and you,
my dear fellow, are the father of the baby now within my womb."

"What? I! I! the father of your baby? Oh, dear, darling Mrs. Vincent;
oh, say that again."

"It is indeed true, my dear Charlie; and the knowledge that I first
possessed you, and you me, reconciles me to giving my husband a child
that is not his."

"My child! my child!" I cried, and I danced round in a paroxysm of
delight at the idea of being a father. It seemed at once to elevate me
to manhood, and puffed me up with pride. I rushed upon dear Mrs. V.,
embraced her most warmly, and pushing her back on the sofa, said--

"I must see how the little angel looks in his cell."

I turned up her petticoats, and exposed all her beauteous belly,
already by its swelling showing there was more there than ever went
into her mouth. Her cunt too had become more prominent. I stooped,
kissed her lovely quim, gave it a good suck, then gamahuched her till
she cried out for my prick to fuck her, and a most exquisite and
rapturous fuck we had. The thought that I was baptising my own babe
with my sperm stimulated my lubricity, and we ran a course of the most
libidinous delights until we dissolved away in the most voluptuous
death-like exhaustion of satisfied desires.

"Charlie, my darling, you must get up; remember you may injure the dear
little creature by too great an excess, so pray rise."

I rose at once, but only to embrace her most tenderly. She complained
of feeling somewhat faint, and said we must now go to the house to get
some wine. We put ourselves in order, and all radiant at the thoughts
of paternity, I strutted along as proud as a peacock, and thinking no
small beer of myself. I hardly knew whether I stood on my head or my
heels, and was quite extravagant in my conduct. Dear Mrs. V. was
obliged seriously to caution me before I could come to a proper
reserved behaviour in presence of the servants. She rested about half
an hour, and was about to order the gig up to the door, but I implored
her to send it round to the road below the summer house, as I should
all the longer have the pleasure of being with her. She smiled, and
again gave me a pat on the cheek, as much as to say, "I understand you,
you rogue," but did as I suggested. So we proceeded through the
grounds, and were at the summer house some time before the gig could be
harnessed and come round to the road below. I did not wait for that,
but embracing darling Mrs. V., wanted to push her down on the sofa.

"No, no, dear Charlie, that will tumble my dress too much, and we shall
have no time to put it in order; stop, I will kneel on the low couch,
and you will stand behind, I can guide you from below, and you know I
always thought you got further in and gave me more pleasure that way
than any other."

She knelt down, and I canted her clothes right over her shoulders, and
exhibited her fine buttocks, which, now she was in the family-way, had
widened out, and were fatter and rounder than ever. First gluttonously
kissing them, I brought my prick right against them. Mrs. Vincent
projected her hand behind, seized and guided him into her glowing and
longing cunt, and he plunged at one bound up to the hilt.

"Gently, Charlie dear," she cried, "remember our dear baby is there,
and you must not be too violent."

This at once reduced me to moderation. I had a hand on each hip, and as
I slowly glided in, I pressed her splendid buttocks backwards to meet
me. I kept my body upright so as to enjoy the lovely sight of the
movement of her bottom.

"Put your arm round and feel my clitoris, Charlie, dear."

I did so for a minute, and then whispered--

"It is such delight to gaze on your splendid bum in action, so pray
apply your own finger to your clitoris, and let me enjoy the lovely
sight."

"Very well, darling."

And I could feel her frigging away most furiously. This enabled me to
introduce first one and then two fingers into her most delicious
bottom-hole. When I found she was in the greatest state of excitement,
I suddenly shifted my prick, and substituted it for my fingers. In her
surprise and excitement, she had no time to resist, and I glided in,
not too rapidly, quite up as far as I could go. She flinched a little,
and called me a bad fellow, but I held her hips too tight to allow of
her unseating me, even if she had wished. I begged she would let me go
on, for I had never forgotten the delight of doing it this way the
night before her marriage. She made no reply, but I could feel
redoubled action with her finger on her clitoris; and the muscular
twitchings of her loins and sphincter soon convinced me that nothing
would please her better than finishing our course where I was--and most
delicious it proved. We should have died away in loud cries of agonised
delight but for the necessity of prudence, for doubtless the gig was
then awaiting but a few yards off. My darling mistress seemed unwilling
to let me withdraw; she held my prick in such close and firm embrace,
throbbing on it from moment to moment, and so exciting him that she
shortly felt he was again stiffening inside of her. She rose on her
legs, and by that action unsheathed me. Then, turning round, she threw
her arms about my neck, and most tenderly embraced me, thanking me for
having given her such exquisite proofs of love.

"But I must go, my dear Charlie, and I hope we shall have occasionally
some other delicious opportunity of enjoying such raptures again. Say
everything kind to your mother and the girls, and tell them I shall
come ever again shortly and see them all."

I saw her into her gig, and watched her until a turn in the road hid
her from my sight. I returned to the summer house, and kissed the spot
she had last pressed with her lovely body. My soul was filled with love
of her, and pride that I was man enough to put a babe into her belly. I
strutted about the room, and if any one could have seen me I should
doubtless have appeared ridiculous. Mamma, our new governess, and the
girls returned to tea. I told them of Mrs. Vincent's visit, and her
regret at finding them absent, also of her promise to drive over again
on an early day. My mother hoped I had been attentive to her. I said I
had, as well as I could, and had got some wine and biscuits, as she
complained of not feeling very well, she thought the jolting road had
tired her.

It may well be supposed that after the impression our new governess had
made upon us, we were very attentive for some time. Indeed, her system
of teaching was really excellent, far superior, in that respect, to our
former governess. She had a method of interesting you in what she was
teaching, and for quite two months we paid such great attention, and
made such really extraordinary progress, that she could not help
praising us highly to mamma while we were in the room. This was bad
policy, because, with the natural thoughtlessness of youth, we fancied
ourselves so clever that we became less attentive. This was patiently
borne with for some time, probably in consequence of our previous good
behaviour. But at last Lizzie was somewhat impudent when blamed rather
harshly by Miss Frankland.

"Oh! it has come to that, has it? We shall see." She continued our
lessons until four o'clock as usual, and then desired Lizzie to remain
where she was; she dismissed Mary and me, locked the door on poor
Lizzie, and went away, doubtless for a rod. She soon returned, and
locking herself in, most severely whipped poor Lizzie's bottom. She
sent her out when it was finished, and Lizzie joined us, weeping
bitterly from the pain she was suffering. We laid her on the couch, and
turned her petticoats over her head to cool her bottom, which she
declared felt as if burning hot coals were spread over it. I kissed the
dear red buttocks that were all covered with weals and looked like raw
beef, but no blood had been drawn. We fanned her with our
handkerchiefs, which she said was a delightful relief. In a very few
minutes she began to wriggle her bottom in a state of excitement, and
cried out--

"Dear Charlie, do shove your prick into my cunt, it has begun to long
for a fuck."

I wanted nothing but this to instantly act, for the sight of her bare
bum had already made my cock stand as stiff as iron. She raised herself
on her hands and knees, presenting the back entrance to her cunt, and
telling me it was there she must have it instantly. I plunged up to the
hilt in a moment, for she was as juicy and moist as if she had spent,
which it is more than probable was the case. Very few powerful thrusts
on my part, seconded by energetic action on hers, and she spent again
with a scream of delight, and with a pressure on my cock that almost
hurt it. She hardly paused a moment before she cried out--

"Shove on, dear Charlie, push it in further if you can, I am burning
with desire."

She wriggled her backside in every way in the most lascivious and
delicious manner, and when she felt the crisis approaching, by the
increased swelling and hardness of my prick as well as the peculiar
electric effect at the moment, she met my flood of sperm with so
copious a discharge that it literally spurted out and deluged my cods
and thighs. She held me tight, and would not allow me to withdraw until
I had myself spent four times and she seven at least. We then rose, her
nerves calmed by the repeated doses of hot boiling sperm shot into her
interior. She declared that never in all her fucking had she felt such
insatiable desire, or more ravishing delight in satisfying it, that she
would undergo a dozen such floggings to have the same rapturous
enjoyment.

"I am sure," she said, "it was all the effect of the rod, I never felt
anything like it before."

Mary all this time had been but a spectator, and a pleased one to see
the erotic fury of her sister and my powerful efforts to allay it. It
is true we had both had a delicious fuck during the time poor Lizzie
was catching it on her backside, and I had just gamahuched her
deliciously afterwards as Lizzie came in in such pain.

Miss Frankland had retired to her room, and looked still flushed and
somewhat wild looking when she joined us after the usual hour's
recreation. As may well be supposed, we were all as attentive as
possible. There was one circumstance that evidently pleased Miss
Frankland immensely. When Lizzie, in her turn, went up to repeat her
lesson, she suddenly threw her arms round Miss Frankland's neck, and
with tears running over her cheeks, sobbed out--

"Dear Miss Frankland, pray forgive me, and let me kiss you, for I love
you dearly."

There was a bright sparkle of delight in Miss Frankland's eyes. She
clasped Lizzie round the waist, and drew her to her lips in a long
sweet kiss of love, which seemed as if it would never end. We observed
Miss Frankland's colour rise. She at last put Lizzie away, and said she
was a dear amiable girl, whom she could not help loving.

"Go to your seat, you are too agitated, my dear, to say your lesson
just now; so send Mary up."

Lizzie came back to her seat, but I could not help fancying I saw a
complete expression of erotic desire on her countenance. When
afterwards we were alone together, she told us that when the governess
kissed her, she felt Miss F.'s tongue glide into her mouth, and "tip
her the velvet" in a most delicious and exciting manner, and she
believed that if they had been alone they must have given each other
mutual embraces of a warmer description. This led me to think that Miss
Frankland was herself rendered lecherous by the action of even
wielding the rod. Lizzie during the whole of the next week did nothing
but rave of the excessive excitement that her whipping had put her
into, and the extreme felicity she felt in having her salacious lechery
satisfied. We were not able to meet every day, for frequently Miss
Frankland accompanied us, and joined in the youthful sports we then
gave way to. Lizzie continuing to harp on the extraordinary enjoyment
the whipping had procured her, after it was over, fired the imagination
of Mary, until she was wound up to a pitch of actually longing to be
whipped. In such a case it was easy to incur the penalty; she had but
wilfully to neglect her studies, and she was sure to get it. This she
accordingly did, and it resulted as before. When released, she rushed
to the summer house, and without any preliminaries, called upon me to
fuck her directly; and a very similar scene followed to that which had
occurred when dear Lizzie was whipped. Mary did not, however, give way
to the uncontrollable desire to throw herself into Miss Frankland's
arms as Lizzie had done. Miss F., as usual, retired to her room after
the punishment was over, and was late in coming down, with the same
flushed face and excited eye. I became convinced that she herself was
salaciously excited by the act, and I began to fancy that with such
passions, if I could but excite her in any way, it might be worth my
while. When once these lecherous ideas were raised in my imagination,
desire soon painted her with every charm of beauty, and I became
excessively lewd and anxious to possess her. The more I looked at and
scanned the really beauteous proportions of her finely developed form,
the more my determination to have her took root, and grew strong within
me.

About this time Miss Frankland, who had become a great favourite with
mamma, obtained permission to take possession of the spare bedroom,
with an understanding that she was to cede it to any visitor who might
come. Of course, this circumstance made my desire to get into her good
graces doubly strong, inasmuch as the opportunity of sleeping with her
afterwards could be so easily effected. I determined to watch her when
retiring to bed, and try to get a view of her naked form. For this
purpose I removed the stopping of moistened bread I had put in the hole
I made to see Mr. Benson fucking his wife. I lay awake, until she came
to bed. I saw her undress, but only caught sight of her naked bubbies,
over her chemise. As I have said, they were not large, but widely
separated, with a fine flat neck up to the throat. I mean that she
showed no collar bone, which is a great beauty in woman. She had
evidently been quite naked, and had used the bidet, but the extent of
the slit in the door did not allow me to command the part of the room
where she had used it. I remedied this defect next day, and the
following night was rewarded with a most glorious sight. You may well
suppose that I did not let sleep overcome me, but was at my post as
soon as ever I heard her enter her room. I was on my knees in a moment,
at my peephole, and saw her deliberately undress to her chemise. She
then arranged all her magnificent head of hair, brushing it out as far
and further than her arms would extend; and after well brushing and
combing it, she plaited and rolled it up, in a great big rouleau
behind, then washing her hands, she drew out the bidet, poured water
into it, and then divested herself of her shift. She was standing in
front of the dressing-table, with two candles shining on her, so that
when she lifted her shift over her head; I had a well-lighted full view
of her wonderfully covered belly. She was all over hair; it was as
black as coal, and shone as if polished in all its beautiful curls. I
am now an old man, but never have I seen the equal to that dear woman
in a hairy belly. It was quite up to her navel, and several inches down
the inside of her thighs, besides running thickly in the chinks of her
bottom, and with two bunches where the beautiful back dimple is usually
situated, as thick, and even thicker than ordinary women have in on
their mounts. In addition to this, there was a beautiful little line of
curls that ran up her belly, as far as between her bubbies, to say
nothing of the very hairy thighs, legs, and arms. I never saw a more
deliciously hairy woman, and she was all that such excessive growth of
hair denoted--passionate and lecherous to a degree, when once she had
confidence in her companion, to let her feelings have vent. Of course,
I am now describing my after-experience; at the moment I was only
dazzled by the extraordinary richness and quantity of that exquisite
ornament--hair--not only in splendid quantity on the head, but in a
profusion such as I had never then and have not since witnessed. I was
struck dumb with astonishment and admiration. She laved her hairy cunt,
and all the adjacent parts, then wiped herself dry, put on her
night-gown, extinguished her light, and, of course, got into bed. So
did I but only to toss and tumble, and at last, in troubled sleep, to
dream of that most gloriously covered cunt, and to imagine myself
revelling therein. So great was my excitement that I had the first wet
dream I ever experienced. It is needless to say, it was under the
dreaming idea that I was enjoying to the utmost that wonder cunt.

I was quite exhausted by morning with such a restless night, and was
not only very _distrait_, but was really so fatigued that I could not
attend to my lessons. Of course Miss Frankland noticed this, and being
unaware of the cause, attributed it to wilful idleness and bravado of
her authority. She spoke very gravely and seriously to me, and told me
if I did not improve my conduct by next day it would be her painful
duty to punish me with severity.

"I expect to see you exhibit very different conduct tomorrow, otherwise
you will drive me to do that which I would much rather not."

It rained hard that afternoon, and we had to amuse ourselves within
doors. On retiring for the night, I determined to watch again for Miss
Frankland, but my want of rest the previous night overpowered me, and I
fell fast asleep until far in the night. I rose and crept to my
peep-hole, but all was dark. I could hear Miss Frankland breathing
heavily. The thought at once struck me that I might safely steal up to
my sisters' room, as they were now alone, since Miss F. had the
previous night removed to the spare bedroom, where she was now fast
asleep. So softly opening my door, and leaving it ajar, I crept along
the passage, gained my sisters' room, and gently awakening them, jumped
in between them, to their great joy and satisfaction. We immediately
began with a gamahuche, I taking Mary's cunt, while Lizzie crossed her
legs over her head, and was gamahuched by Mary, whose finger was at the
same time acting _postilion_ to her charming bottom-hole, while I had
the exquisite prospect before me of their operations. As soon as ever
Mary spent I made Lizzie lie down on her back, with her head towards
the bottom of the bed, Mary knelt over her in the opposite direction,
presenting her very full backside, which was daily developing larger
proportions. I plunged into her cunt, plugging her little rosy bum-hole
at the same time with my middle finger, while Lizzie did as much for
me, at the same time rubbing Mary's clitoris with the fleshy end of the
thumb, while Mary, at the same time she herself was fucked and frigged
in two places, was employed in gamahuching Lizzie, and frigging her
bottom-hole with two fingers, Lizzie declaring that one finger felt as
nothing. We lengthened out our delicious proceedings until excess of
excitement compelled us to give way to all the fury of our feelings,
and we managed to spend all together with such rapturous and lascivious
delight as rendered us quite powerless for some time. We then had a
delicious cuddle, the girls having each one hand on my prick and the
other on my buttocks. When we had once more worked ourselves up to
fucking heat, we reversed the previous position, and I fucked Lizzie.
Mary was gamahuched and bottom-fingered by Lizzie, while she employed
herself with Lizzie's clitoris and my bum-hole. Lizzie was far hotter
and more salacious than any of us, and spent copiously on my delighted
prick, which enjoyed excessively the warm bath of glutinous liquid that
was poured down upon it. I gave a few slow-drawn thrusts in and out, to
moisten well its whole shaft, and removing my two fingers from her
delicious bottom-hole, and wetting it with my saliva, I withdrew my
prick from the reeking sheath of her cunt, and to her great delight
slowly housed it in her longing and exquisitely delicious bottom-hole,
keeping it quiet there for some time, so as not to spend before Lizzie
was ready. I enjoyed the delicious throbbing of her body, which at last
becoming too exciting, I stooped over her, passed a hand under her
belly, replaced Mary's fingers, rubbing her clitoris while Mary frigged
her cunt with two fingers thrust into it. We thus quickly brought
matters to an end, and died off in all the ecstasies of satiated lust.
As daylight was beginning to dawn, I tore myself from their loving
embraces, gained my room in safety, and slept the sleep of the just
until late in the morning.

My orgie with my sisters had so far satisfied my animal passions that I
rather began to dread the severity I knew Miss Frankland would use if I
came under her hand. This made me so far attentive next day as to
satisfy her; and as it was a fine afternoon she came out to walk in the
garden, while we innocently amused ourselves. That evening I kept
awake, and again enjoyed the superb display of Miss Frankland's
wonderfully hairy cunt, all the lower part of her body was as black as
a chimney sweeper's. The sight awakened every lustful feeling within
me. I felt I must possess her, and determined to brave the severest
infliction she could give me with the rod. I somehow, instinctively,
arrived at the conclusion that this extraordinary profusion of hair
could only grow where nature had implanted the hottest animal passions,
and had but to greatly excite them to turn their lust to my advantage.
I determined that to-morrow I should bring things to a crisis, and that
I might be equal to every effort I went to my bed, and did not attempt
to steal up to my sisters' room. Next day nothing could be made of me
in the morning; Miss Frankland sternly warned me that if such conduct
was pursued after dinner nothing should save my skin from a severe
scourging. However, my mind was made up, and I went in "for the whole
hog," as our vulgar Yankee cousins say. I was more idle and
insubordinate than ever. Miss F. looked thunder; at four o'clock she
ordered me to stay, and the girls to go. She then locked the door, took
out from the desk a formidable rod, and told me to approach her. I did
so--really half in fear, for she could look dreadfully fierce and
determined, in which case I came up to her side.

"Now, Charles," she said, "your conduct, for two or three days past,
has been such as I cannot put up with. Your mother has given me full
power to punish any of you severely, if I think you deserve it; you are
getting to be of an age that I hoped you would have so acted as to give
me no cause of offence, but I am sorry to see my hopes are
disappointed. I am now about to punish you, submit to it quietly, or it
will be all the worse for you. Unbutton and put down your trousers."

I felt I must submit, but when brought to this point I really so much
dreaded her that there was not the slightest erection in poor cockey.

While I was undoing my trousers, I observed that Miss Frankland had
quite lifted up her outer frock, and had sat down, evidently intending
to flog me across her knee. Both being ready, she told me to put the
footstool by her side and kneel upon it, then desiring me to bend
forward over her knees she put one hand over my body to hold me down;
then uncovering my bottom, and taking the rod, which was by her side,
she raised her arm and gave me a fearful cut, which made me not only
flinch, but cry out most lustily. Blow followed blow, causing at first
great agony, that made me cry again in good earnest; then the very
continuance of the blows seemed to deaden the parts until I hardly felt
them. This was succeeded by a titillation and lascivious excitement
which speedily brought my prick out in the fullest vigour. I then began
to push it against Miss Frankland's thigh, and to wriggle myself nearly
off her knees. Seemingly to prevent this, she passed her left arm quite
round my body, bringing her hand under my belly, and, apparently by
accident, against my prick, which she grasped, and I could feel her
hand pass both up and down it as if she was measuring its length and
thickness, continuing all the time to shower down blow after blow on my
devoted backside. As she held a firm grasp on my prick, I pretended to
be evading the blows, while in reality I was thrusting it in and out of
her hand with the utmost energy and excitement, which speedily brought
on the delightful crisis, and with a cry of rapture I gave down a
copious discharge into her hand, and sank almost senseless on her lap.
I pretended complete loss of consciousness, which she believing, she
gently felt, and even frigged a little, my prick, pressing me the while
close to her body, and then I felt a shudder run through her whole
frame. I have no doubt she was in a paroxysm of lust, and had spent, I
gave her time to recover a little, and then pretending to come to my
senses, but in a confused state of ideas, said--

"Oh, what has happened? I have been in heaven!"

Then raising myself, and apparently only just recognising Miss
Frankland, I threw my arms round her neck, and exclaimed--

"Dear Miss Frankland, do flog me again if it will produce again such
ecstasies as I never before experienced."

Her face was flushed, her eye shone with all the fire of libidinous
passion. My prick had hardly lost its stiffness when I spent, and was
now projecting out firmer than ever.

"Why, Charles, I thought you a mere boy, while you are quite a man with
such a thing as this."

"Oh!" I cried, "do continue to hold it, you give me such pleasure!"

"Has anyone else ever held it in this way?"

"No, I never felt anything like it before."

"But don't you know what this is meant to do?"

"Oh, yes, it is what I piddle from."

She laughed, and asked if it was often in its present state of
stiffness.

"Every morning when I awake it is so, and it hurts me very much until I
piddle."

"And has no one ever taught you any other use of it?"

"No, what use can it be of?"

"You dear innocent boy, if I could trust you, I would teach you a
secret that this dear thing would greatly enjoy. But can I trust you?"

"Oh, certainly, dear Miss Frankland, I know what you mean now, to
repeat the delicious sensations you gave me a few minutes ago. Oh, do,
do! do it again, it was far too nice for me ever to tell anybody, as
long as you will do it for me."

"Well, Charles, I will trust you. Do you know that women are
differently formed from you?"

"Yes, I used to sleep in mamma's room, and I have often been surprised
to see that she piddled from a long hole, and had not got a doodle like
I have to piddle from."

"My dear innocent Charlie, that long hole was made to take in this dear
fellow here that is throbbing almost to bursting in my hand, and if you
promise me faithfully never to tell any one, I will teach you how it is
done."

You may be sure my protestations of secrecy were most earnest.

"Look here then, my dear boy, and see what I have got between my legs."

She laid herself back on the long chair, drew up her petticoats, and
exhibited to my charmed gaze the wondrous wealth of hair she possessed.
Opening her legs, I saw the wide-spread rosy lips showing themselves in
beautiful contrast to the coal-black hair that grew in the greatest
profusion all round the lower lips, and extended also some five or six
inches down the side of each thigh. But what at the moment most
astonished me, and drew all my attention, was to see a deep red
clitoris standing out from the upper part of her cunt quite stiff, and
as long and as thick as the middle finger of a man. I very nearly
betrayed myself at the sight, but, fortunately, was able to keep up the
character of apparent ignorance I had hitherto shown, and said--"You,
also, have got a little doodle to piddle with?"

She laughed, and said--

"It is very different from yours. Give me yours here, that I may kiss
it."

She fondled it for a second or two, and then could not resist the
impulse to take it into her mouth and suck it.

"Oh, what pleasure! I shall die!"

"Not yet, dear boy; kneel down there, and I shall instruct you in the
real secret of pleasure."

But, before she could do anything, I threw my head down, crying out--

"I must give this pretty little fellow a taste of the pleasure you have
just given mine."

And in an instant I had the delicious thing up to the root in my mouth,
sucking furiously at it. Her twistings, and up and down action of her
loins, showed how rapturously I was exciting her, in fact, I brought on
the crisis, when she pressed my head down hard upon it, and closed her
thighs on each side of my head, as she poured over my chin and breast a
perfect torrent of sperm. A minute after she seized my arms, and drew
me up on her belly, then slipping her hand down between us, she seized
my prick and guided him, nothing loath, into her burning hot and
foaming cunt. She placed her hands on my buttocks, and pressing me
right up to the hilt, began a movement which she told me how to second,
that in a very short time brought down an exquisite spend from me. The
idea that she was giving me the first lesson in love, and of being the
first possessor of my person, seemed to excite her lust to the utmost,
and she immediately followed my discharge with another, so copious that
it spurted all over my thighs. Her force of pressure on my prick in her
agonies of enjoyment was so great as nearly to hurt me. I never knew
any one but her with such strength of pressure of cunt on the prick.
She has often actually brought tears into my eyes, so powerful was her
grip that it made me really feel as if in a vice. She lay back with
closed eyes and panting bosom in a rapturous trance of lascivious
lubricity, her throbbing cunt holding me tightly pressed between its
palpitating folds in the most delicious imprisonment, and from time to
time grasping my prick with a pressure that very shortly restored it to
its fullest vigour and stiffness. She was as hot as fire and responded
immediately to the renewed life she found stirring within me. She gave
way to her salacious lust with, if anything, a more passionate excess
than the first time. My superb weapon seemed to stir up within her a
force of lubricity that nothing could seem to satisfy. Her hands
clutched my buttocks convulsively, and seemed to wish to force my whole
body into her wildly excited cunt. With such vigour was the action
carried on that the grand crisis soon arrived, most rapturous to both,
and almost maddening to Miss Frankland. The heavings of her body and
gaspings for breath were quite hysterical, while, with one of those
real vice-like pressures, I felt as if she were nipping my prick in
two. It was not a mere throbbing pressure, but a long continued
convulsive squeeze, as if her cunt had been seized like the jaws of the
mouth with lock-jaw, and could not open. It was nearly ten minutes
before she recovered her senses. She seized my head between her hands,
kissed me most lovingly, declared I was the dearest creature that ever
lived, that she had never before had any one who had so satisfied her,
and filled her with inexpressible rapture, &c. This fondling had again
brought up my prick to full stand. Miss Frankland said--

"Dear Charlie, we must be prudent, as the time is drawing near for your
sisters' return."

But there was no stopping, the exquisite pleasure of her splendid
interior cunt pressures was irresistible. My movements speedily
determined matters in my favour. Miss Frankland's temperament was far
too warm not to quickly set her passions to the highest fucking heat;
and again we had a most exquisite fuck, lengthened out more luxuriously
by the more urgent fires of desire having been moderated by the three
previous discharges. With more abandon we both sank in the death-like
ecstasies of the delicious melting away in all the luxury of contented
and voluptuous discharges. Miss Frankland lay for some short time
luxuriously closing in my delighted prick, but raising her body, she
said--

"Charles, we must cease for the present."

And, pushing me away, I was forced to withdraw; but her dear cunt
seemed as reluctant as myself, and held my prick so tight that I had to
pull hard to draw it out, and, at last, he left with a noise like
drawing a cork from a well-corked bottle. Before I rose, or she could
hinder me, I threw myself down and glued my lips to her reeking cunt,
and greedily licked up the foaming sperm that had surged out of her
well-gorged quim. She with difficulty drew away her body, but as I rose
she clasped me to her bosom and kissed me most fervently, and licked
her own sperm off my richly covered lips. Begging me to button up, and
putting herself to rights, she desired me to sit down by her side. She
wiped my mouth with her handkerchief, arranged my disordered neck-tie,
collar, and hair. We then embraced most tenderly, and she thanked me
for the immense gratification I had given her; she praised my parts as
being of extraordinary development and more satisfying than any she had
yet had any experience of. This was the second time she referred to
other experiences. I took no notice of this all the time, as if I was
supposed to be too ignorant or innocent to think any harm of it, but I
determined in some excess of passion to get her to give me a recital of
some of her previous experiences.

Before my sisters came in, she said--

"I shall try and arrange some means for our meeting unobserved
to-morrow. Meanwhile, you must sit as if you had been severely
punished, and I shall assert that you had done everything to resist my
authority, for which I had punished you further by not allowing you to
leave the school-room."

I said not a word to Miss F. about the ease of meeting by merely
opening the door of communication between our rooms. I was afraid to
make her suspicious of a former use of it. But I determined, when she
came to bed, to rap at the door and beg her to open it, and I had no
doubt she would be as delighted as myself to find with what facility
she could indulge to the utmost every libidinous passion which her
lascivious nature could suggest. My sisters returned, and appeared
disappointed that I had not been able to join them, as they had
anticipated a glorious fuck or two each, after the whipping had excited
me as it did them. They told me afterwards they had been obliged to
content themselves with a double mutual gamahuche, but it did not make
up for my absence.

While they were all engaged after tea, I slipped up to Miss Frankland's
room to see that the key was in the lock of the door between our two
rooms. I opened it, oiled the hinges, and locked it again from her
side. I also, with a view to sometimes slipping up to my sisters' room,
oiled my own and their doors, hinges, and locks, as now that the ice
was broken with Miss Frankland, it would be necessary to be doubly
careful not to excite suspicion of my visits to my sisters. Having
finished everything to my satisfaction, I joined them in the
drawing-room, and while my sisters were playing duets on the piano to
mamma, I challenged Miss Frankland to a game of chess. She, of course,
was a far superior player to me, but our legs meeting under the chess
table, her little charming foot sought mine, rested on it, and pressed
it from time to time. This distraction of her ideas enabled me to win
two games successively. My mother sent the girls to bed, and told me to
follow their example, but as I did not wish to lie long waiting for
Miss Frankland's appearance in her bedroom, I pleaded for relaxation in
the hour of retiring, to enable Miss Frankland to regain her chance of
beating me, at the same time pressing her foot as a sign to her to
second my request. She took the hint, though she had no idea of the
object. Mamma came near us to look over our game. This induced Miss
Frankland to play with more caution and thought, and she won three
games in succession, making her the final winner. Mamma now said I must
go to bed, as it was very late for me. She still treated me as a child.
I, however, had gained my object in obtaining nearly two hours' delay
in going to bed, so that I had not long to wait before I heard Miss
Frankland enter her room. I determined to let her finish her toilet
before I called her attention to me. I watched through my peep-hole,
and could now calmly and leisurely see all the beauties of her
well-developed form, and the rich wealth of hair she possessed. She
went through all her ablutions as usual. I observed she also used a
syringe to thoroughly purify the inside of her glorious cunt. When she
had dried herself, and was about to pull on her chemise, I rapped on
the door of communication, and in a loud whisper called her attention
to me.

"Are you there, Charlie?"

"Yes, pray unlock the door and open it, that I may come to you."

She actually had not yet discovered that the door, locked and bolted on
her side, communicated with my bedroom, but her delight at the
discovery was greater than her surprise. I flew into her arms, and was
hugged to her bosom, and covered with kisses. But as my prick was in a
bursting state of erection, I drew her to the bed, upon which we both
threw ourselves, she on her back, and I above, and in an instant I was
engulphed up to the cods in her glorious and glowing cunt, and we ran
an eager course of rapturous thrustings, until nature could stand no
more, and we sank in all the delights of a most delicious mutual spend.
I lay soaking in bliss for some time, and after fondling each other,
Miss Frankland said--,

"Get up, dear Charlie, and let us get into bed."

For we had been in too great haste to do otherwise than tumble on the
top to it. My charming bed-fellow also rose for a necessary purpose,
which I had interrupted when I knocked at the door. She sat down on the
_pot de chambre_, and a mighty rush of water followed. I cried--

"Oh, do let me see you piddle from your beautiful fanny."

I still kept up my character of innocence, and used none but infantine
words in reference to our organs of generation.

She laughed, but pulled up her shift, and raised her thighs above the
pot, so advancing the light, I had the delicious sight of her
wide-stretched cunt, pouring out a stream of piddle with great force.
Her position brought out all the beauties of the vast wide-spread mass
of black curly hair that thickly covered all the lower part of her
magnificent quim, ran down each thigh, up between her buttocks, and
opening out on her back, had two bunches just below the two beautiful
dimples that were so charmingly developed below her waist. There was as
much hair there as most women have on their mons Veneris. Her whole
body had fine straight silky hair on it, very thick on the shoulders,
arms and legs, with a beautiful creamy skin showing below. She was the
hairiest woman I ever saw, which, doubtless, arose from or was the
cause of her extraordinary lustful and luxurious temperament. The sight
I was indulging in brought out my pego in full bloom; as we both rose
she saw it sticking out under my shirt.

"Off with all that, and let me gaze on your charming young perfections."

I did as she desired, begged her to do the same, and there she stood,
in all the glory of her superb form. We encircled each other's naked
bodies, and then turned each other round to gaze on all the exciting
charms displayed to each other.

"Come, my darling boy, and let me kiss and fondle you all over."

She laid me on my back, reversed herself above me, and taking my prick
in her mouth, after first feeling it most gently, and praising its
large proportions, again declaring it was the finest she had ever seen,
she began to gamahuche me with a skill such as I had never before
experienced, and gave me the most exquisite and most luxurious delight.
For my part, seeing her wonderful clitoris, stiff standing out of the
bright red lips of her luscious cunt, I took it bodily into my mouth,
sucked it, and rolled my tongue about it, to the evident delight of my
salacious companion. Her buttocks rose and fell, and the lips of her
cunt immediately before my eyes opened, or closely pressed the lips
together, showing the delicious nature of her enjoyment. I felt her put
her hand to my bottom and insert her finger, and begin frigging me
there. I let her see how it pleased me. She stopped a moment, to beg me
to do the same to her, anticipating my earnest desire to do so. I lost
no time in following her example. The parts adjacent were well
lubricated by our previous indulgence, and first inserting two fingers
into her deliciously juicy cunt to moisten them, I slipped one of them
into her charming bottom-hole, and finding great ease of space, slipped
the second in as well. My other hand and arm embraced and caressed her
magnificent backside, which rose and fell on my face with unwearied
speed, as my finger frigged her bottom-hole in unison with her
movements, and my mouth more closely sucked her stiffly excited
clitoris.

Her whole body became convulsed with erotic movements, showing what
force of lubricity our mutual embracings were most rapturously
exciting. I, too, grew wild with desire, and was equally energetic in
my movements, and would have thrust my prick down her throat but for
her hand, which grasped the lower part of the shaft. The rapturous
crisis came at last and laid us prostrate with soul-killing ecstasies.
We each retained the dear object of our mutual caresses within our lips
and our fingers remained within the delightful recesses that had so
much contributed to the excessive raptures we had enjoyed. We lay for
some time in this sweet languid enjoyment. Miss Frankland then rose
from off me, saying--

"My darling boy, we must now get into bed." We did so, quite naked as
we were, closely embracing, and covering each other with kisses and
caresses, murmuring soft terms of endearment, and in whispered accents
told of the ecstatic joys each had given the other. Our hands wandered
over every charm. Miss Frankland had an art of gently passing her
fingers over my prick that had the instant effect of raising him into
the fullest vigour. It was the most exquisite method of feeling my cock
I ever experienced. She seemed scarcely to touch it, but drew her
fingers along its length, from foot to head, with a delicacy of touch I
have never found equalled by any other woman. The effect was magical,
and invariable, no matter how many times I might have fucked her
before. With her hot temperament, and excessive lubricity, it was
almost a necessary art. She was one of those libidinous natures that
could well employ several men at once. At my happy age, she found ready
to her hand one who could respond to her every desire in every way, so
happily does nature second youth and health that she never found me
wanting, when called on. There was no excess of lubricity we did not
afterwards practise. We satisfied our passions in every way in which
they could be indulged, nor did we hesitate at any thing which
imagination could fancy would stimulate them. She was surprised at my
aptitude, and rejoiced and congratulated herself on having found so
powerful and charming a satisfier of her libidinous nature. How
delighted she was to think she was the first to cull the sweets of my
innocence, and how happy to find so apt a scholar, who in one sweet
lesson became a master of the art. The more I gained experience of the
charming sex, the more I appreciated the wisdom of the counsels of my
really first and ever loved mistress, dear, charming, lovely Mrs.
Benson. How truly she had foretold that all who might hereafter think
that they were giving me the first lesson in love would doubly, trebly,
a hundred fold enjoy the sweet intercourse from such self-deception.
Here was my fiery Miss Frankland, who had had considerable experience
in the amatory world, pluming herself upon instructing an innocent
youth in all the mysteries of the passions for the first time. It
evidently added immensely to her excitement. Indeed, in our
after-conversation, she avowed that as it was the first time she had
ever taken the maidenhead of a youth, so it had been the greatest
degree of excitement she had ever experienced. I might fancy her
delight at finding combined with such a satisfaction a wonderfully
well-hung youth, and who proved so apt, and so equal to every luxurious
whim that the most erotic lust could suggest. But I digress. At
present, her magic touch had brought me up to bursting point, she threw
a leg over me, and raising her body, said she would help herself this
time. Guiding my prick to the wanton lips that were longing for him,
she sank slowly down on the stiff pole on which she was so delightedly
impaling herself, until our hairs were crushed beneath her weight, and
nothing more could be engulphed. She again rose, until the edge of the
nut showed itself at the mouth of her cunt, and then as slowly sheathed
it again. She continued this exquisite movement for some time, to our
delicious mutual enjoyment, then falling down on my belly, and telling
me to pass my arm round her bottom and finger her as before, she glued
herself to my lips, our tongues interlaced, and shot in and out of our
luxurious mouths; our movement grew fast and furious, until we again
sank in all the luxury of the last grand crisis. It was the very act of
voluptuous rapture, and we lay lost to every sense but that of erotic
ecstasy and satisfied lust. When we recovered our senses, she lay down
by my side, cuddling me most closely, and toying and prattling, until
she thought we had paused long enough. She slid her hand down to my
prick, and very quickly, by her delicious and delicate handling of it,
renewed its full vigour. Throwing her right leg over me, while lying on
her back, she heaved up her body into a position half turned to my
belly, I lying on my side; she then bid me embrace her other thigh
between mine, then guiding cockey to the entrance, she gave a push
backwards, to meet my forward thrust, when it was instantly sheathed to
the hilt.

"Now, my darling boy, in this way we can lengthen out our pleasures as
long as we please; you can make me spend oftener than yourself, which
will satisfy my very lustful nature, and not over exhaust your young
powers."

Giving one or two delicious side wriggles to her bottom, and nestling
her backside close to my belly, she told me to pass my left arm under
her waist that I might embrace her left bubby and finger its nipple, a
proceeding which she told me was as exciting as playing with her
clitoris--then turning her head, our tongues interlaced; she put my
right hand down to her stiff-projecting clitoris, which I continued to
frig just as I might have done to a boy's cock. Keeping up a slow in
and out movement with my prick, excited by so many points of lascivious
friction, she spent most copiously before I was prepared to join her.
Her head sank back in the ecstasy of her discharge, drawing away from
me, and leaving my mouth free. I instantly dropped it upon her other
firm and elastic bubby, at which I sucked away, pushing my prick as far
as possible into her cunt, and leaving it there, without movement, to
enjoy the rapture-giving pressures of her delicious cunt, slowly
passing my hand up and down her still sufficiently indured clitoris.
She lay for some time in the luxurious enjoyment of the position, then
once more sucking my lips, she thanked me over and over again for the
pleasure I had given her, heightened as it was by knowing that it had
not exhausted me. I began to move slowly in and out, keeping up my
movements at the other points of excitement. She was ready on the
instant to second me, and as she meant this time that we should spend
together she left nothing to desire. Her movements were of the most
exciting and stimulating description, and we were not long before the
ecstatic moment arrived, and we sank in the lap of luxury, pouring
forth streams of ecstatic bliss. We lay close locked in the most
delicious embrace, only conscious of unutterable joy. It was some time
before we could venture to break this exquisite trance of enjoyment. It
was followed by the sweetest toyings and prattlings, until again my
delighted prick, stimulated by the internal pressures of the luxurious
sheath in which it had remained engulphed, again awoke her
scarce-slumbering passions to dash on pleasure's heavenly course. Again
she spent before me with, if anything, increased rapture, and, after a
pause, renewing her lascivious movements in response to my own, we sank
in a perfect death-like swoon of thoroughly satiated lust, and
gradually and imperceptibly fell into the deepest slumber for many
hours, locked as we were in each other's arms. Her wonderfully
retentive power of cunt held my happy prick a willing prisoner through
our long sleep. I awoke first, to find it standing stiff within the
charmed circle which even in her sleep was deliciously grasping it with
its nervous folds. I passed my hand down to her clitoris, and began
fucking her. She heaved her bottom up and down, and murmured some
incoherent words, being evidently still under the influence of sleep,
and probably dreaming of some former events, for in her half expressed
murmurings, I could make out something--

"Henry--my only--ever loved one--meet again--oh! how ineffable--how
exquisitely delicious. Do push it in--more faster--beloved of my soul."

She clasped me with a hug, as if she would make but one body of us
both, and spent with a scream of agonized delight, pouring down and
spurting out a perfect torrent of boiling spunk all over my cods and
thighs.

"Dearest, beloved Henry, it is too much," she uttered, and fainted away.

I lay quite still, and determined not to speak until she should come to
herself. It was evident her dreams had brought back some former loved
and happy man and no doubt the fact of my being in possession, in full
fuck, had made her believe in the reality of her sleeping thoughts. She
was quite a quarter of an hour before recovering her senses; daylight
had broken, and she looked round in a sort of alarm, and exclaimed--

"Where am I?"

Then her eye catching my face--

"Oh! my darling Charlie, it is you! I have been dreaming of being far
away, and, I suppose, the fact of your dear weapon throbbing within me
made me think of former events. Well, the dream had its pleasures, if
only in a dream."

"It was no dream, my dear Miss Frankland, or at least, only partially
so, as far as regarded your loved Henry--for that was the name you
applied to me, and most deliciously did you embrace me under the idea,
and die away in an excess of pleasure I quite envied; but you alarmed
me by really fainting afterwards. I am so pleased to have turned a mere
vision of the night into ecstatic reality, and I am not at all jealous
of your former lover, because had you not had any, you would, probably,
never have loved me. Oh, no! I should never be jealous of you my dear
mistress. I would even like to see you in all the ecstasies of passion,
in the arms of another, provided that I should share in your delights."

She listened in an astonishment, acknowledged that she had imagined
herself in the arms of one she had greatly loved, and had thought the
whole affair was a dream, and was not conscious of its absolute reality
as to her being fucked.

"Well, I must have mine now, feel how it is bursting for relief."

"Yes, yes, the dear fellow, push him away, my Charlie, and you will
see, I shall enjoy the real Charlie quite as much as the dreamt-of
Henry--of whom I shall some day speak to you. You are worthy of him and
of me--and I fear I shall love you as I do him, far too dearly."

Then lending herself to the work we were at, she did, indeed, exert all
her lascivious power, and we enjoyed such a fuck as seldom falls to
mortals here below. We lay prostrate and panting with satisfied lust,
until prompted by the urgency of natural wants we were both obliged to
rise and relieve ourselves. My darling mistress then used her bidet and
told me to lave my parts in the basin, as it was not only cool and
refreshing, but also reinvigorating. After which as it was now broad
daylight, she allowed me to pose her, and turn her in every position,
that I might admire and handle every part of her superb form. Her
bottom was larger and harder than any I had yet seen, and, indeed,
excepting one, of which, dear reader you will presently hear something,
it was about the finest in form and size of any I ever met with. Of
course, this handling was not effected without producing erotic
excitement in both parties. Miss Frankland had occupied herself as much
with me as I had done with her, and her beautifully large clitoris was
showing its head in full stand out from among the vast mass of bushy
curls surrounding it. I proposed we should have a mutual suck on the
floor, with her bottom to the light, that I might have a full view of
all her glorious parts. She humoured my fancy, and pulling a couple of
pillows off the bed to prop up my head, she stepped across my body, and
kneeling down, took my prick in her mouth, and brought her splendid
backside and lascivious cunt down to my face. I first glued my lips to
the open cunt, thrust my chin in, and then my tongue, as far as I could
reach, licking the luscious moisture which our previous handlings had
excited; it was as sweet and delicious as cream. This stimulated her
very much, and she closed the sides of her cunt upon my tongue so
closely as to give it a good squeeze. I never saw a woman but her, who
had such a wonderful power in that way. My nose actually felt it was
reciprocating the pressures of the cunt, so I changed the venue, and
slipped my tongue into her bottom-hole, evidently to her excessive
delight. But things were approaching a crisis, and she cried to me to
take her clitoris in my mouth, and substitute fingers in both the other
orifices. This I quickly did, while she sucked and postillioned me,
handling the root of my prick, and my buttocks with the delicious
gentle titillations in which she had such skill, until, in an excess of
joy, we both poured a tribute of sperm into each other's mouths, and
both greedily swallowed it. After this we got into bed again, to have
one loving cuddle before parting. Of course, it ended in raising such a
storm of desire as a fuck could only allay--she said--

"My loved Charlie, this must really be the last."

I told her it had so excited me to see her splendid bum before my eyes
when we were on the floor that I should like to kneel behind and put it
in that way. I really meant into her cunt, but she thought I meant her
bottom-hole, and said--

"Well, you are a strange boy, what on earth made you think you could
put that great big thing of yours into my bottom-hole; but, to tell you
the truth, after being well fucked, I rather like it that way, so you
shall try, but you must be gentle in getting in."

I said, "I did not know I could do it that way with my prick, I meant
to put it into your cunt from behind, but now, from what you say, I
should like to try what the other is like."

You see, I was keeping up my apparent ignorance. She turned on her
face, and keeping her head on the pillow, drew up her knees to her
belly and exposed to the greatest advantage her glorious backside. I
knelt behind, but previous to beginning, I glued my lips to the
delicious orifice, and shoved my tongue in as far as I could, and
deliriously excited her. Then approaching my stiff-standing prick, and
thrusting it into her cunt up to the roots two or three times, so as
thoroughly to lubricate it, I withdrew and placed it before the smaller
temple of lust; then, by a gentle uniform pressure, I gradually and
almost imperceptibly glided in to the utmost extent. She pushed her
bottom out, and, I could feel, was straining as if to void something,
which is the real method to accelerate the entrance of a prick in that
enchanting channel with the least difficulty and pain. We then
commenced a slow movement--she wanted me to stoop forward and place my
arm round her body, and frig her clitoris, but I begged her to do it
herself, and allow me the luxury of looking on the delightful wriggling
of her superb backside, and also the sight of my own prick surging in
and then withdrawing. She humoured me, and we had a most exquisite
fuck. Her bottom-hole had hardly so tight a pressure as she could
exercise with her cunt, but, nevertheless, it held me in very firmly,
and had a peculiar heat which was most exciting. We both died off
together, she so completely overcome with ecstatic delight that her
body sank flat on the bed, drawing me with her, without unsheathing my
weapon. We lay for a short period, she convulsively shuddering from
time to time with the intense degree of excitement this delicious route
had produced upon her. At last she begged me to rise and relieve her.
As we must now separate, I rose. She assisted me in my ablutions, put
on my night-shirt, conducted me to my bed, fondly kissed and thanked me
for the exquisite night of every species of delight I had conferred
upon her, promising a repetition the following night. She left me and
locked the door of communication, but previously unlocked mine, in case
I should oversleep myself.

Thus ended the first delightful night I ever passed with that most
charming and deliciously lascivious woman--the first of many scores
that followed, but in none of which were her raptures more intense, if
as much. She ever after dwelt on the night when she had been the happy
means of initiating me into all love's mysteries, for she never knew of
my previous experiences, and always plumed and prided herself on being
my first instructress.

The next day I was somewhat somnolent, of which you may be sure Miss
Frankland took no notice. She retired to her own room when we went for
our recreation. My sisters scolded me for not coming to them the
previous night, but I told them that Miss F. had continued to move
about her room for so long a time that I had fallen fast asleep, and
even then had not had enough, as they might have observed how sleepy I
had been all day. However, to satisfy them, I gamahuched them both, and
fucked them both while each was giving the other a second gamahuche, so
that then each spent three times to my twice. I thus kept in my forces
for the renewed delights I anticipated at night. I went to bed early
and slept soundly at once, having no anxiety about keeping awake,
feeling certain that Miss F. would awaken me as soon as she was ready
to take me to her arms. She came, and we passed another most delicious
night of every salacious and libidinous enjoyment. A third night
followed, which differed only in the lascivious proposition of Miss
Frankland to deflower my bottom-hole with her wonderfully prominent and
elongated clitoris, little dreaming that there, too, she had been
anticipated by our loved and charming friend MacCallum. She had,
however, all the imaginary pleasure of first possession. As you may
well suppose, I did not attempt in any way to enlighten her ignorance
thereon. We had gamahuched each other, I had fucked her twice in the
cunt and once in her bottom-hole, when the fancy seized her to bugger
me with her clitoris. Of course, I made no objection; on the contrary,
sucking it up to a proper stiffness, I placed myself on my hands and
knees in the most favourable position to satisfy her erotic fancy. She
first slipped her tongue into my bottom-hole, then spit upon her
clitoris, and then anointed my aperture with the delicious slime of her
well-fucked cunt, and then with the utmost ease pushed the dear thing
up to its utmost limits. I humoured her in every way, wriggling my
bottom sideways, which she declared was a vast improvement on her back
and forward movements. She passed her arm round my belly, and with that
exquisitely delightful touch on my prick for which she was so
distinguished, she excited me to the utmost, making my sphincter ani
respond to the throbbings of my exquisitely delighted prick, and
equally exciting her lascivious passions with the idea of first
possession of that narrow abode of voluptuousness. She could feel by
the electric excitement of my prick how near I was to spending, and
quickening the action of hand and clitoris, we both died away together
in all the raptures that such an extra exciting conjunction could
produce.

Several nights thus passed in the indulgence of every form of the most
lascivious enjoyment. We used to amuse our moments of relaxation in
trying who could suggest any new position or varied manner of effecting
the delicious junction of our bodies. On one occasion, recurring to the
state of excitement her flogging had thrown me into, I asked her, as if
I did not know the fact very well already, if the application of the
rod on the bottom of a woman, or the mere act of being flogged, at all
excited her sex. She told me both acted with great force on her erotic
nerves. She thought, from experience, that being whipped caused the
greatest excitement and produced the greatest longing to be fucked.

"Then," said I, "do you think it had erotically excited my sisters?"

"Certainly, especially your sister Eliza. I do not know whether you
noticed her sudden impulse to embrace and kiss me after her return to
school work the day I flogged her; that was a stray erotic impulse, and
had we been alone, I could not have avoided responding to it in a way
that would have delighted her, and initiated her into some of the
delicious mysteries of venery. Nay, I think, but for my happy discovery
of your great and delightful merits, I should have sought for and found
an opportunity of being alone with that dear girl, for you must know we
can lasciviously embrace our own sex with immense mutual pleasure, and
although not equal to that which this noble fellow"--(taking hold of my
prick)--"inspires, is not without its merit, and even as a little
variety from time to time is very enticing."

"Then, I suppose, you still have some hankerings after the virgin
charms of dear Lizzie?"

"I have, and what is more, I believe both Mary's and her passions have
already developed themselves. I have sometimes fancied I heard
suppressed sighs and gentle movements going on in their beds, and I
shrewdly suspect they were practising masturbation on each other. I did
not interfere, and after what has passed between you and me, I will
tell you that I had a little plan in my head to let them proceed to
such lengths that when I chose to make the discovery they would be at
my mercy. I then could initiate them in every lascivious and voluptuous
delight that woman can have with woman. The happy discovery of your
excellences, and the perfect facility my change of room has given for
meeting without the slightest chance of discovery, has for the present
driven that idea out of my head. I am, however, indebted to it for the
change of room, as I asked for it solely to leave the two girls the
utmost liberty to indulge in their voluptuous mutual enjoyments,
certain that it would increase and give them every desire for the
further instruction I could impart to them."

"I suppose you would have fucked them with this dear stiff little
thing?" said I.

"Oh, yes, you darling, but you have so excited me talking about it,
that you must fuck me directly."

We indulged in a most exciting fuck, and when recovered from the
confusion of ideas the delightful crisis always produces, we resumed
our conversation on the interesting subject of my sisters. I observed
that she had not lately flogged them again.

"All your fault; I am now so satisfied with you that I no longer seek
for relief to pent-up desires in that way."

"Tell me, dear Miss Frankland, did flogging my sisters excite you much?"

"It did, even to spending; but the fear of proceeding further with them
at that time rendered me ferocious. The very severity I used was as it
were in revenge for stopping short of other salacious embraces, but if
once I had gone so far as to make them partakers of my lubricity, I
should never have flogged them again so severely, but only to such a
gentle extent as would raise their passions to an uncomfortable pitch,
rendering them slaves to my burning lust. Even now I have, from time to
time, a desire to do so, especially with dear Eliza, as I think she had
far more of venereal lust in her nature than Mary. You would not
object, dear Charlie?"

"Not in the least, if you will only give me the voluptuous satisfaction
of hearing all the details from your lips afterwards; it would
stimulate us both to additional raptures, and spur our desires to
renewed combats."

"I don't think it wants much to do that; your glorious prick is as hard
as iron."

"It was the lascivious idea of your enjoying Lizzie that made it get
up, but I must fuck you again or it will burst."

"I, too, my dear boy, am inflamed at the idea; put it in behind this
time; I have a great letch in that way at this moment."

I did as I was directed, and so great was the agony of delight when we
died away that she sank on the bed dragging me after her, and we lay
almost insensible, soaking in bliss for quite half an hour. We did not
again renew our conversation that night, but I determined to push her
forward to carry out her idea, and also to give Lizzie a hint to second
her wishes in every way, without giving her any idea of what had passed
between Lizzie and me, and being equally reserved as to my nightly
connection with Miss Frankland.

The following night we passed again in all the amatory delights we
could imagine. After our deep midnight sleep, which always took place
locked in each other's arms, and poor cockey held firm as if in a vice,
I awoke her first, and found my prick stiff-standing in her cunt, which
was involuntarily pressing it in the delicious interior folds. I began
moving gently, until she was so excited as to quite wake up, when she
joined me in all the raptures of a delicious and voluptuous fresh
morning fuck. We then rose to satisfy natural wants, and cool our
excited nerves by a copious ablution. As we were returning to bed, I
observed that Miss Frankland took something out of her wardrobe wrapped
up in a handkerchief, and placed it under her pillow with a certain air
of mystery. I said nothing. After purifying ourselves we always
indulged in a voluptuous gamahuche; after which Miss Frankland
generally asked, as a favour, that I should finish off _in culo_. I
loved her delicious bottom-hole too dearly ever to refuse. She placed
herself as usual on her knees, thighs well drawn up, and head down, so
as to make the most of her glorious backside. After I had followed the
usual preamble of thrusting in and out of her luscious and juicy cunt
so as to lubricate my prick well, I then introduced it, always with the
slow and gradual pressure, until it was sheathed to the hilt, when we
generally paused some minutes to reciprocate mutual throbs and
pressures. In this lascivious pause I saw her hand steal under the
pillow, and draw out the handkerchief and put it under her belly. I
shortly found a considerable substance entering her cunt, and making my
quarters still more tight and narrow. I began to move, and found the
substance in the other entrance keeping time to my movements. I had a
tight hold of her projecting clitoris, which I had frigged up to a
stiff-standing point. I slipped my hand down and found she was dildoing
herself with what proved to be a very handsome dildo, in not very
formidable proportions.

"That's right, my darling," I cried, "why did you not do it openly, you
ought to know that my greatest wish is for you to enjoy these salacious
meetings in every possible voluptuous manner; frig on then, my beloved,
and be sure that if it adds to your delight it adds to mine."

"Thank you, my darling Charlie, shove away, I am in the seventh heaven
of delight in having as good as two pricks working in me at once."

She would have explained more, but her words were cut short by the
ecstasies the double fuck produced, and she spent copiously before me,
on finding which I held back, and was rewarded by making her spend
eventually with the utmost excess of delight twice to my once. By this
time it was broad daylight, and too late in the morning to enter into
any conversation on the new partner in our amatory combats, which was
reserved for the next meeting.

This did not occur so soon as we expected, for that day Miss
Frankland's flowers declared themselves. It was a fortunate thing for
me that she had them at the period of the new moon, and as Mary had
them at the full, it enabled me to dedicate a night or two to my
beloved sisters, who considered I had been neglecting them of late. I
said I had not felt very well, and that I began to think that our
excessive fucking was becoming too much for me; that they must remember
I was one to two, and I felt if I continued to overexert myself I
should break down and fail altogether.

"That would never do, dear Charlie, and it is very true you do twice
our work and more, because we don't pour down such a torrent as you do
when we spend; you must take care of yourself, we will not be so
exacting in future, but cool ourselves first by a mutual gamahuche
between Lizzie and me."

I thus arranged a certain amount of cessation of fucking in that
quarter that I might dedicate the more to the far more exciting powers
of the delicious and salacious Miss Frankland.

I had always remained in my own bed until I heard her heavy breathing,
denoting that she slept, before I dared to leave my own room to go to
my sisters. The desire of racking me off, as dear charming Mrs. Benson
used to call it, might have seized her, and my absence would have
discovered all.

However, she had, no doubt, considered that it would be all to her
advantage that I should be left perfectly quiet to recruit my system,
after the heavy drain on my amatory resources which she had kept up for
the previous fortnight. She never sought in any way to excite me until
a day and a night after the cessation of her menses. She told me it was
much better to have done with it entirely at once, rather than by
erotic excitement keep up the discharge for a week or more.

"And it is not, my dear Charlie, from any want of randy lust on my
part, for, especially at first, there is an extreme desire to be well
laboured by the biggest prick one could find in existence; the natural
irritation of the parts seem to be increased by the way in which the
sensual system is affected in that quarter. Former experience has
taught me that it is much better to bear this, than by seeking for
erotic excitement to keep up the natural discharge for twice as long as
it would otherwise endure. Besides which, there would have been a
danger of affecting your dear health. Sometimes conjunctions, at such a
period, produce a urethral irritation very prejudicial to a man, and
such as might deprive me of the delight of your embraces for some
weeks. So you see, my own beloved boy, that in every way it is prudent
to avoid any amorous excitement at such a period, however hard nature
may press for venereal relief. Some women hazard all this, and for a
momentary gratification, run risks perfectly unwarrantable, not only
for themselves, but above all for their lovers. I, too, my darling,
have had my day of imprudence, and knowing the result, I should be both
cruel and stupidly insensate to let you run the risk of what already
occurred."

As she recounted those sage counsels, I could not but remember my loved
Mrs. Benson, whose advice had been of such service to me, and here was
another loved mistress instructing me in further matters connected with
the sex. It certainly was a stroke of great good fortune for me to have
met at so early an age two such admirable women, not only most amorous
and lascivious, but instructing me in the real knowledge of their sex,
and the world, at the very time that they were indulging my every
lascivious desire, as well as their own. Mistresses of their art, no
mystery in love's catalogue of excitements, and of means of gratifying
the same, was unknown to them. But they knew, too, how to inculcate
wisdom for future conduct. I owe every amatory success of my after-life
to the admirable teachings of these two charming and estimable women.

The next night, after we had sacrificed sufficiently often to Venus to
enable us more calmly to resume the delightful discussion on the
various ways of pampering and exciting the passions, I turned the
conversation on flogging; for to take you, dear reader, into my
confidence, I was seized with an uncontrollable letch to flog the
superb bottom of my loved mistress. I had often seen it palpitating
under the vigorous attacks of my stiff-standing pego, while belabouring
either of the delicious entrances to the temples of lust. I had often
given her glorious bottom good sound slaps of the hand, but I longed to
apply to it in earnest a good birch rod, see it flush to a raw meat
hue, and then to shove my prick with the utmost force into either or
both of the delicious orifices. I thought the best way of arriving at
this desired object was to recur to her own description of a less
severe flogging exciting the passions with pain; and as she had also
admitted that it excited her equally to be flogger or flogee, I
proposed that she should exercise a gentle discipline on my bottom, to
try its efficacy. She jumped at the idea, but there was no rod in her
room, perforce the ceremony was put off until the next night. On that
occasion, she advised me first to indulge in every excess of lubricity,
and when nature should begin to flag, then the real efficacy of the rod
would be experienced. She aided me with the utmost skill in every act
of most voluptuous and luxurious venery, and we mutually poured down
six tributes to our blessed Mother Venus, with very little cessation,
for we both wished to feel somewhat exhausted, before trying the
effects of the birching system. We lay quiet for a short time, and then
dear Miss Frankland began exciting me, but only in an ordinary way. My
prick had already been too well satiated with the previous encounters
to respond at once to the calls made on it.

"Ah," said she, in her sweetest way, "I see we want the rod here.
Prepare yourself, sir, and take care to make no resistance, or it will
be the worse for your bottom."

Following her cue, I began to implore pity, to promise I would behave
better in short time, etc., etc. But she was inexorable, and ordered me
to lie across her knees. Then, taking me round the waist, she gave a
smart cut or two, really sharp, that made me for the moment wince.

"Take care, sir, you are resisting, and you know your punishment will
be severe, if you so continue."

"Forgive me, mistress dear, and I will never do so again."

"We shall see."

Cut three, sharp, though not so severe. I did not flinch. "Ah! that is
something like a good boy, now we shall have no difficulty."

She began a series of less and less severe blows, until it ended in a
gentle irritable titillation which very shortly began to show its
effects by the stiffness of my pego--fiercely shoving against the naked
thigh of my loved castigator, who, passing a hand round my body, laid
hold of it, delighted to find how efficacious her proceedings had been.
Pretending to be quite exhausted, she sank back on the bed, and said
she could do no more. I sprang upon her, and we had two more _coups_
without withdrawing, with the greatest excess of voluptuousness. It was
now my turn, and as she let me slip out of her delicious cunt, I took
that up as a cause of dissatisfaction.

"What! you naughty girl," I cried, "is that the way you treat your
master, bundling him out of his room in that manner; here, give me the
rod, I must make your bottom pay for your ill conduct--here, kneel on
this footstool, and lay your body over my thighs, no resistance, or it
will be the worse for you."

"Oh! pray, sir, do forgive me this time," and she knelt at my side, and
pretended to cry. I forced her down, and she presented her glorious
backside, in all its splendour of rotundity and size, before my
delighted gaze. I seized her round the waist, and first gloated my
sight with all the full and lascivious charms, not only displayed, but
in my power, and I armed with a splendid rod. I gave her two or three
sharp cuts, which made her beauteous buttocks wriggle, but called forth
no remonstrances; but as I continued, in all the rage of lust the
exercise excited, to flog away most severely, she begged me to be
somewhat more gentle. But I flogged on with increased vigour, until she
began to writhe under the severity of the punishment I was inflicting.
She struggled fiercely, at last, to be free, but she was completely in
my power, and I did not spare her until I saw that, changing from
severe pain, her feelings were turning to a storm of lechery and lust.
She became frantic with excitement, and screamed out--

"Cease, darling Charlie, and fuck me directly. I am dying for it."

I threw down the rod, jumped on the bed, and drew up her loins, so that
she was placed in a kneeling position; she herself seized my bursting
prick, and carried it to the lips of her cunt, where he instantly
engulphed himself to the hilt. Her movements became lascivious beyond
expression, and were urged with a vigour, which brought down in a very
short time a torrent of sperm from both of us. We were too much excited
to stop short, and almost without a pause, a second course was run
still more voluptuously. She was not even then satisfied, but making me
lie on my back, she reversed herself upon me, and we commenced a mutual
gamahuche. I succeeded in making her spend again, and she was able to
bring my pego up to a standing point.

"Now, Charlie, dear, we must finish off behind."

So getting again on her hands and knees, she guided my willing prick to
the narrower abode of felicity. After first steeping it for a moment in
the moisture of her foaming and reeking cunt, I thrust it into her
bottom-hole. I seized hold of her clitoris, she had her dildo all
ready, and working it herself with one hand, we ran a last course of
most lustful and lecherous enjoyment, which ended in such killing
raptures that we both sank all but insensible on the bed. Exhausted as
we were by the wild excesses we had indulged in, we fell, without
moving or regaining our senses, into a deep and profound slumber, until
almost too late in the morning, so that I had to regain my room the
moment we awoke, without attempting any further amorous toyings. Thus
ended my first experiences as a flogger. The sensation was so new, and
the temptation to lay on with a vengeance was so great, that I had gone
beyond all reasonable bounds in inflicting such a severe punishment on
the glorious bum of my beloved Miss Frankland. I must, however, do her
the justice to say that she comprehended and excused the feelings under
which I acted, only begging me, on any future occasion not to let them
carry me away so far as they had done on this. We several times renewed
this bum flogging, but with more moderate inflictions--sufficient to
highly excite without actually punishing the patient, whichever of us
it might be.

We often after this made flogging the theme of our discussions, and I
gradually led on to the idea she had expressed of Lizzie's evidently
amorous disposition. She still affirmed that such was her conviction. I
then suggested that it would be worth her while to try and gratify it,
as well for Lizzie's sake as for the satisfaction of her own letch in
that way.

"I suppose you could easily find a pretext if you desired to do so?"

"Yes, easily enough, the idea excites me, and I shall indulge it."

I do not remember what the pretext was, but Lizzie was kept in next
afternoon at four o'clock--Mary and I proceeded to the summer house. I
knew we should not be interrupted by Lizzie, and that I need not hold
in for her satisfaction. So I gave Mary all the benefit of our being
alone, and we had four most exquisite and refined indulgencies in every
attitude admitted of by the legitimate entrance to love's temple. For,
as yet, I had never been able to gain an entrance to the narrower
orifice, which was too small for my formidable weapon to penetrate. It
is odd how easily Lizzie accommodated me in her delicious bottom-hole,
while Mary, older and more womanly in form, was as yet unable to make
room for me in that strait path of bliss. When night came I was all
curiosity to know how my dear mistress had carried on matters with
Lizzie. She told me that Lizzie had been somewhat nervous at first, but
she had spoken kindly to her, told her how her amiable and loving
conduct after her first whipping had won her affection; that she did
not mean to be so severe as on the former occasion, but that discipline
must be kept up.

"So come, my dear girl, drop off your frock, as I shall mine, that the
bundle of clothes may be out of the way, as well as to avoid their
being creased."

Seeing that Lizzie still trembled a little after she had dropped her
gown, she took her in her arms, and kissing her lovingly, desired her
not to be afraid--she would not punish her much.

"Lift up all your things, my dear, and let me see if any marks of the
former punishment remain."

Lizzie had a very prominent and very promising bottom. Miss Frankland
felt it all over, and admired loudly its form and firmness, declaring
it was quite beautiful to look at, and how womanly it was growing.

"Turn round, and let me see if you are as womanly in front. Upon my
word, a well-formed mount with a charming mossy covering."

Her hand wandering over her form excited Lizzie, whose face flushed and
eyes glistened with rising desires. Miss Frankland herself became
moved, but proceeded at once to lay her across her lap, and began with
gentle switches, just sufficiently sharp to attract the blood in that
direction, which, of course, acted with double force on all the already
excited erotic organs, and Lizzie began to wriggle her bum in all the
lasciviousness of lust under the excited gaze of Miss Frankland, who,
seeing how matters were going on in her favour, increased the force of
her blows, but only sufficiently to still more lecherously excite her
patient--until, driven to an excess of lust, she cried out--

"Oh, my loved Miss Frankland, I am dying with pleasure, do embrace and
caress me."

Miss Frankland lifted her up, and drew her to her bosom and lips, and,
while sucking her tongue, slipped her hand down and found Lizzie's quim
wet with her flowing spunk, and her little clitoris stiff with the
erotic passion that was consuming her. She frigged her until she spent
again, while their tongues were in each other's mouth. As Lizzie spent,
Miss F, shoved a finger up her cunt, which, of course, met with no
resistance, but as Lizzie possessed in perfection the art of nipping,
she was sufficiently tight to leave a doubt of anything but
finger-fucking.

"Ah, you little puss, you have been playing with this before now, tell
me the truth?"

"I will tell you everything, if you will only play with me again. Ever
since you flogged Mary and myself, we have both been so often burning
down there, and have found out that feeling it, and pushing fingers in,
was so nice, although at first we often hurt ourselves. But you do it
so much better than Mary--oh, do, do it again, dear Miss Frankland!"

"I shall do it much better, my darling, with what I have got down
there--look here!"

And, lifting up her petticoat and chemise, she exposed, to the absolute
astonishment of Lizzie, her extraordinary mass of hair, and her fiery
red clitoris glowing and sticking out of its black mass of curls.

"How beautiful!" cried Lizzie. "I declare, you have got a doodle, for
which I have been so longing; I must kiss it."

Stooping down, she took it in her mouth, and sucked it.

"Stop, dear Lizzie, we shall both enjoy it."

Taking the cushion from the chair, she lay down on her back on the
floor, telling Lizzie to turn her face the other way, and to kneel down
across her body, so that both their mouths could adapt themselves to
each other's quim.

Lizzie told me afterwards that she took care to show no previous
knowledge, but to let Miss Frankland apparently initiate her into all
the ceremonies of gamahuching.

Miss Frankland glued her lips to dear Lizzie's charming quim, while
Lizzie took her extraordinary clitoris into her mouth. After a few
ardent caresses Miss Frankland pushed a finger up Lizzie's bottom-hole,
then paused an instant to tell Lizzie not only to follow her example in
that respect, but to use her other hand in her quim while sucking her
clitoris. Then, both adapting themselves as prescribed, they gamahuched
on, until both could no longer move from the excessive raptures
produced by their profuse discharge. After this first bout Lizzie
became curious to see all the wonderful hair-covered organ and limbs of
Miss Frankland, who gratified her to the utmost extent of her wishes.
Nor did she leave this inspection entirely to Lizzie, but reciprocated
it. Undoing her dress above, she uncovered the charming budding
beauties of Lizzie's bubbles, and began sucking the nipples. Their
mutual caresses and handlings very quickly refired these hot and
lecherous women. After a little renewed gamahuching, until both were
wild with excitement, Miss Frankland proposed to put her clitoris into
Lizzie's quim; told her to kneel down, and kneeling behind her, she
sheathed it with ease in the hot and juicy folds of Lizzie's beautiful
cunt. Passing her hand under Lizzie's belly, she frigged her clitoris
until again nature gave down her delicious tribute, and they sank in
all the voluptuous languor that follows. A third time they renewed
their salacious and lascivious raptures, then resumed their dresses so
as to be ready to receive us. Miss Frankland begged Lizzie to keep her
counsel and not reveal, even to Mary, what had passed. But Lizzie urged
Miss F. to admit Mary into the new mysteries she had just herself been
taught, and said she could assure her that Mary had a far more
beautiful body than hers, and would like it quite as well as she did.

"Well, my dear, I shall think of it, and find an occasion to flog her,
as I have done you."

"Oh, that will be jolly!" cried Lizzie. "She will like it just as much
as I do; it is so nice, you must flog me every day, dear Miss
Frankland. I loved you from the first, I adore you now."

They embraced most lovingly, but our return put an end for the present
to any further conversation.

These details were accompanied and interrupted by two or three
delicious and most voluptuous fucks, without once withdrawing my
burning prick from her equally heated and throbbing cunt--for her
description of these proceedings was most exciting. When she had
finished, I withdrew, that we might gamahuche each other, and lick up
all the delicious spunk in which her juicy cunt abounded. We then
renewed our combats, sacrificing to holy Mother Venus in both orifices.
Then we slept as only easy-conscienced people like ourselves could
sleep; and, like giants refreshed by slumber, renewed our devotions on
every altar before separating in the morning.

Two days later Mary was initiated by Miss Frankland in a like manner to
Lizzie, while Lizzie and I made the most of our time in the summer
house. Excited by her naive description of her scene with Miss
Frankland, we indulged in every salacious device that we could cram
into the hour's absence, which, by the way, we lengthened out by more
than a quarter of an hour, for which Miss Frankland thanked me at
night. Her scene with Mary had been one of even greater lubricity, in
consequence of Mary at once lending herself to everything, and
acknowledging that she knew from Lizzie what she had to expect.
Besides, Mary's more developed form and something about her greatly
excited Miss F., and she was quite amorous upon her. She had done so
much in the way of spending, that after I had gamahuched and fucked her
two entrances three times, she required the stimulus of the rod to
bring her up to the highest point of lascivious lubricity. And, to tell
the truth, I afterwards required and received it myself. Thus our
voluptuous passions acted one on the other, and we passed an exhausting
night in every excess and refinement of venery, in which Miss
Frankland's dildoes, for she had two, of different sizes, played no
small part in both our persons.

Now that the ice was broken, I easily persuaded Miss F. to have
occasionally first one and then the other of my sisters to sleep with
her, alleging that an occasional early night's rest would recruit my
powers, and that when she dismissed her bedfellow in the morning, I
could finish her off in force; she could thus initiate them in mutual
floggings, and in the use of dildo. Of course, I need not say that my
ultimate object was to succeed in our making it a general orgie. In
this indeed it ended, but not exactly as I had intended. That mattered
not, as long as the desired object was attained. I had the delightful
opportunity, too, of watching through my peep-hole many of the
delicious scenes of lubricity enacted, and when driven to the fiercest
excess of passion, I used to withdraw, steal up to the unoccupied
sister, and vent my raging lust in every indulgence with her.

This had been carried on for about a fortnight, one or other of the
girls sleeping every other night with Miss Frankland. Lizzie, it
appeared, had often professed to long to see a real cock, and had
managed to worm out of Miss F. that she had enjoyment of mine. The
little hussey importuned Miss F. to let her see me fucking her, saying
that she could easily hide behind the curtains, and I would never know.
Miss F., whose passions were at the utmost tension of desire,
consented, and placing Lizzie where she could see without being seen,
opened my door, but found an empty bed. She at first suspected that I
had gone to one of the female servants, but thought she would make sure
and see if Mary was not the object. So she stole softly upstairs, and
found us in the act of enjoying a double gamahuche, which as it was
early morning light, she could see without difficulty. She had the
kindness to let us enjoy it to the end, and then dragging me off, said--

"Oh! Charles! this is dreadful! Why could you not be content with
me?--have I ever refused you? Do you know this would be the ruin of all
of us if ever it should become known? You are too young to know the
dreadful consequences of discovery."

Here she burst out in a torrent of tears--it was evident from real fear
of the sad results that might ensue, and not from any feeling of
jealousy. I threw myself into her arms, and as she had herself
acknowledged our intimacy, I had less difficulty in alluding to it. I
caressed and fondled her, and told her there was no fear of
discovery--less now than ever--as we would be all interested alike in
keeping our secret; she would cover my intimacy with my sisters, and
they would cover my intimacy with her. All at once she said--

"How long has this been going on?--tell me truly."

I had long prepared myself for such a question, and at once replied
that after the description of the libidinous scenes that had taken
place between her and them, and her exquisite account of their young
charms, I got so lecherous upon them that I had sought Mary out while
she was engaged with Lizzie, and Lizzie when Mary was with her; they
were both too much delighted to refuse me anything, and we had now
enjoyed each other about a dozen times. I had previously told my
sisters to support any story I might recount to Miss F. Lizzie had
stolen up after she found Miss Frankland had passed through my room,
and now both confirmed the tale told. We surrounded Miss Frankland,
caressing her in every way. My pego got terribly excited. Drawing up my
nightshirt, I said--

"Let this dear fellow make peace between us, and become equally dear to
all. I know, my loved mistress, that my sisters are longing to see him
exercised on your glorious person, and buried in your delicious hairy
cunt, so let me offer up sacrifice to its juicy charms. Lizzie has just
said you sought me for the purpose--see, the dear clitoris is raising
its head--let Mary lie down under you to suck your clitoris, and see my
prick close above her eyes in vigorous action filling your exquisite
cunt. You can gamahuche her and Lizzie can look on behind, witness the
glorious sight, and act postillion to my bottom-hole."

"Well, my beloved children, the die is cast, it is no use crying after
spilt milk, so let us make the best of it. I never could resist the
eloquent look of this loved and long thick thing, that was made for
giving poor woman all she could crave for."

So arranging our relative positions as I had prescribed, we ran a
course of the most luxurious and salacious enjoyment imaginable.
Lizzie, who had taken possession of one of the dildoes, manipulated
herself, while watching every voluptuous movement of our bodies, and we
all managed to spend most rapturously together. We could not afford to
do more at that moment, as time was creeping on, and the household
would soon be astir. Miss Frankland regained with me my room, her own
door being locked, and kissing me tenderly, said I was a bad boy, but
she supposed it must eventually have come to this, so it was well it
was sooner than later.

Thus passed our first general orgie, which was the precursor of many
much more luxuriously and salaciously libidinous, and which I shall
more minutely describe as events progress.

Miss Frankland would not allow us to have a general orgie the next
night. She was now aware of our summer house doings--only of late
begun, as she supposed--for my story had been too plausibly off-hand
not to deceive her, especially as she had felt convinced by all that
occurred on our first fucking that she had had the delightful pleasure
of taking my maidenhead. She was quite satisfied on that head. But she
now suspected that what I had just begun I should be too glad to
repeat. She accompanied us to the garden in our recreation hour, so
that nothing erotic took place. We sat down all together after a little
running about, and Miss F. opened to us a rule of conduct we must in
future pursue. She said--

"However delightful it would be for you all, as well as for myself, to
meet every night, it would in the first instance become a dangerous
habit, dangerous because of engendering carelessness in the necessary
precautions against discovery; and next, and above all, because it
would be the destruction of our loved and darling Charlie, who could
not possibly long continue such excessive venery as three loved objects
at once would constantly require of him."

Seeing my inclination to interrupt her, and declare that I felt quite
equal to it, she stopped me, and told us I was too young to know what
such excessive indulgence would lead to; that we must trust to her
experience and be guided by her, and we should all find the advantage
of it. Three times a week was the utmost she could allow, when we
should be all together. The other nights she would take care that I
committed no excess. Such were the sage counsels of this admirable
woman, and such in future became the programme of our proceedings. I
rebelled and kicked against what I thought at the time too great a
restriction, but I eventually became convinced that greater pleasure
followed the enforced delays. Of course I slept with Miss Frankland on
what might be called our off nights, but she soon established a custom
of restraining my spendings to twice a night, allowing me to excite and
make her spend as often as I pleased. I was difficult to manage at
first, but eventually settled down in great regularity to the rules she
dictated, and, indeed, enforced. I soon found out the wisdom of her
proceeding, for often afterwards my lagging efforts required the spur
of the rod to be applied in earnest for the completion of our orgies.

The second night after the discovery of my intercourse with my sisters
was the first of meeting all four together, in Miss Frankland's room.
We had been sent, as usual, early to bed, and Miss F. had privately
recommended us to go quietly to sleep as soon as possible, and not to
be under any anxiety, as she herself would go for the girls, after all
the household had retired. As for me, it was the plan I had always
adopted, as it enabled me to reap the greater amount of enjoyment, and
its longer continuance, by the rest I had previously secured. Winter
had passed away, and summer came round again. It was a lovely, warm,
moonlight night. As soon as we were all assembled, stripping to the
buff was the order of the night; then followed charming embraces and
mutual posings, so as each should admire the beauties of all. Hands
wandered everywhere over every charm, chiefly concentrating on the
wonderful and finely developed form of the fascinating Frankland,
whose richness of coal-black hair was so deliciously exciting. It soon
became necessary to calm the first effervescence of our passions, which
we always did by a general gamahuche. Miss Frankland, who had taken an
extraordinary letch for Mary, paired off with her, while Lizzie and I
accommodated each other. Miss Frankland, who had provided herself with
a store of dildoes, furnished us all with one, differing in size,
according to the intention of their application. As Mary's bottom-hole
as yet could only accommodate a moderate size, Miss F. kept the
smallest for her particular use, the others were indiscriminately used.
Thus armed, we proceeded to enter on all the voluptuous excesses of
gamahuching in every form, lengthening out our pleasures as much and as
long as possible, that we might pass the whole night in the most
libidinous raptures. When the ecstatic moment overtook us, our mouths
had to cease their operations to give vent to the expressions of the
rapturous nature of our feelings. We lay panting for some time before
being able to rise and resume our mutual caresses. Now that we had
taken off the edge of our lustful appetite, we prepared more calmly for
further and more voluptuous combinations. The upper coverings of the
bed were entirely removed, so that it presented nearly a square field
of combat for love's encounters, admirably adapted for its purpose. We
held a council as to our next movements, and finally decided to begin
as follows: Mary to lie down on her back, Lizzie reversed above her,
Miss Frankland was to indulge in her letch for Lizzie, which was that
of fucking her bottom-hole with her extraordinary clitoris, while I was
to fuck Miss Frankland's cunt, and postillion her smaller orifice with
two fingers, Lizzie was to postillion Mary with her finger, while
gamahuching her, Mary to apply the smaller dildo to my bottom-hole, and
frig Lizzie's cunt with a larger one. It was also agreed we should run
two courses in this voluptuous group, varying only in the substitution
of my prick in Miss Frankland's bottom-hole, instead of her cunt, in
which was to be placed one of the dildoes. We were none of us to press
matters to a speedy termination, but to make the most of the exquisite
conjunction of our parts. We enjoyed a most salacious and voluptuous
fuck, and so managed matters as all should spend together in perfect
raptures of lubricity and lust. Notwithstanding the pleasure of the
final discharge, we managed, as previously agreed, to hold our mutual
positions, our parts palpitating with repeated throbbings on or in the
delicious quarters with which they were conjoined. These soon
reawakened our passions, which we as yet had done but little to calm,
and when sufficiently heated, the slight change agreed upon was
effected, and I plunged up to the hilt in the glorious and hairy
bottom-hole of the divine Frankland, who gave almost a scream of
delight as she felt my huge pego rushing up into her burning entrails.
We had to pause some minutes to allow her excitement to subside to a
certain extent, or she would have discharged after two or three thrusts
of my potent weapon. We then proceeded more leisurely, and after
drawing out our enjoyment in the most salacious and voluptuous manner,
the ecstatic moment seized us all together, with such an excess of wild
enjoyment that with screams of almost agonised delight, we poured into
or upon each other whole torrents of hot boiling sperm, and sank almost
insensible into a confused heap of naked forms. We were a long time in
recovering our senses. Then disentangling ourselves, we rose and laved
our parts in cold water, not only to purify ourselves, but as a
stimulant to further exertions in all the wildest excesses of lubricity
that any of us could fancy. But we always managed so as to make Miss F.
think that she was the author of any new salacious idea or suggestion.
In fact she nearly was so in every case, for her experience in every
letch, and its gratification in every form of libidinous refinement,
was great and we owed to her many new and delicious combinations in our
salacious orgies. After partaking of wine and cake, which Miss F. had
taken care to secure, we indulged in some delicious romping and pulling
about of the rich curls and hairy coverings of nearly all Miss
Frankland's superb form. The girls above all admired the magnitude,
hardness, and beauty of her truly magnificent buttocks, and what with
one now and then sucking her bubbies, and at other times toying with
her already standing clitoris, we soon brought her to such a state of
excitement that, seizing hold of Mary, she got her on the table and
gamahuched her, while Lizzie, creeping under, sucked her clitoris, and
I pushed my prick from behind into her cunt. We brought on a delicious
spend, and the glorious creature died away in excess of pleasure along
with Mary, while I had not yet arrived at the climax. So I contented
myself with making my prick throb to her delicious squeezings, until
the fatigue of the position required us to break up the pose. She was
so far calmed that she could now propose and discuss after-proceedings,
and what our next form of enjoyment should be. As Mary had had an extra
spend with Miss Frankland, Lizzie was now placed on her knees, with her
head well down. I thrust my prick into her longing cunt. Miss Frankland
standing up, strode across Lizzie's body in front of me, here I
introduced first a smaller dildo up her bottom-hole and then a larger
one up her cunt, both up to the cod pieces. She then pushed forward her
belly and put her stiff-standing clitoris into my mouth, and placed her
two hands on my head. I then passed one hand under her open legs, and
seizing both dildoes in one hand, proceeded to work them up and down
both holes at once, in unison with my suction of her clitoris, and my
fucking movements in Lizzie's cunt, who at the same time was frigging
her own clitoris with her fingers. Mary, armed with two dildoes,
applied one to my bottom-hole, while she fucked herself with the other.
In this way we ran a most exciting and delicious course. Miss F., in
the ecstatic moments, seemed as if she would have pressed my head into
her belly. She was so charmed with the voluptuous delights this pose
had given that she cried out we must not change until another course
was run. Lizzie said she must change from front to back, and begged
Mary to hand her a dildo with which she might frig herself. The women
were ready directly, but my pego was longer in answering the call, so
Miss Frankland told Mary to apply the birch rod skilfully.

This she did with great art, working the dildo, which was still in her
cunt while so occupied. The effect was almost electrical, and my
glorious rampant prick filled dear Lizzie's delicious and longing
bottom-hole to her utmost delight. Miss F. begged Mary to give her a
gentle stimulus with the rod. Nothing could better have pleased Mary,
for she afterwards admitted she had long had the greatest letch to flog
that glorious and immense backside. With such stimulants as these this
course proved one of the most salacious and voluptuous we had yet had,
and the ecstatic ending was accompanied with screams of delight, as we
died away in the deathlike swoon of rapturous and satiated desires. We
again rose to purify and refresh ourselves, and for some time after lay
closely embraced on the bed. As Mary had not yet had my prick in her
cunt, Miss F. proposed that I should fuck her, that Lizzie should kneel
close behind us, she could fuck Lizzie's bottom-hole with her clitoris,
and work one dildo up my bottom, while she worked a second in her own.
No sooner said that done. Lizzie's head was shoved almost below Mary's
belly, so as to bring Miss F. close enough to me to operate as she
desired, and we ran another delicious course with such extreme pleasure
that all sank sideways down on the bed and dropped into a sound
slumber. We did not awaken until so late that we only had time to lave
ourselves in cold water, finish off with a general gamahuche, and then
regain our separate rooms. On this last occasion Miss Frankland said
she must gamahuche me, as she delighted to break her fast on cream. The
joke amused the two girls amazingly.

It was about this time Mrs. Vincent gave birth to a fine boy. I have
not spoken of her since our first interview after her marriage in the
summer house, when all had gone into the town to bring out Miss
Frankland. We had only had two stolen interviews since that time, which
I have not mentioned, because they were too hasty, and with too little
comfort to have been thoroughly enjoyed; then she became too heavy with
child to afford me any further opportunity. Mamma wrote a
congratulating letter to Mr. Vincent, wishing him joy of the advent of
a son and heir, little dreaming that her own son was the father
thereof. This brought a visit from Mr. Vincent to beg that mamma would
kindly become godmother to the little fellow. My mother at once
assented, and asked who the godfathers were. He said an uncle, from
whom they had expectations, had consented to be one, but he was at a
loss to know whom to ask as second.

"Why not ask Charlie, he was always very fond of your wife as his
governess, and he, too, has an uncle from whom we hope some day to
receive something handsome."

"That is a very good idea of yours, Mrs. Roberts, and if you will
kindly send for Charles I shall put it to him, and if he consents, it
saves me all further trouble."

I was sent for, and, you may be sure, accepted immediately, thanking
Mr. Vincent for the honour he did me, and hoping that Mrs. Vincent
would be equally agreeable that I should be godfather, although so
young.

"Leave that to me, my dear wife is so much attached to me that my wish
is her law, so do not make yourself uneasy on that head."

It may well be supposed I was not at all uneasy, but quite certain that
it was the very thing Mrs. V. would have proposed if she had not been
withheld by prudence. We heard afterwards from Mr. V. that she had
simulated objections on account of my youth, but the very first moment
she could say a word to me in private it was to tell me what delight it
had given her that her husband should have fulfilled in the matter the
very wish nearest and dearest to her heart.

The ceremony eventually came off as had been proposed, but it was at
very rare intervals that I could find an opportunity of renewing our
old combats in the field of Venus. Meanwhile I had no reason to regret
this as far as indulgence of my erotic passions went, because, for
nearly two years, that is until I had passed my eighteenth birthday, I
continued to enjoy uninterrupted bliss in the arms of the luxurious and
fascinating Miss Frankland, or in orgies with her and my sisters, which
culminated in every excess of venery capable of being enjoyed by three
women and one youth. In fact, we all indulged rather too freely, if I
may judge from the fact that, at least to Miss Frankland and myself,
the rod had almost become a necessity, and occasionally even my sisters
admitted it gave them a fillip. Under the able tutorship of Miss
Frankland we became the most perfect adepts in every voluptuous
indulgence of lubricity. But I must also give her the credit of never
neglecting our education. Indeed, I may say it gained by the intimate
union of our bodies. For that estimable woman impressed upon us that to
keep her friendship and confidence we must do justice to her teaching.
I have already said her system of instruction was very superior to
anything we had previously known, and now that she had won our
unbounded love and affection, there was nothing we were not ready to do
in school to second her efforts for our mutual improvement. She had
very superior attainments-spoke French and German like a native, had
sufficient knowledge of Latin and Greek to ground me well in them, and
her knowledge of music was very superior. I have hardly ever heard
anyone with a more charming touch on the piano. In the two years that
followed our first orgie we made really astonishing progress. We all
spoke French very fairly, had a pretty good knowledge of German,
especially Mary, who really spoke it well; as for myself I was well up
in French, fairly so in German, and with a very good ground work of
Latin and Greek.

It was about this time that an event happened which completely changed
the order of my life. My mother had hinted that I had some expectations
from an uncle. These were very vague. He was my father's brother, but
they had never agreed, and we were almost strangers to each other. He
died, and one day we were all surprised, not to say delighted, to hear
from his executor, a Mr. Nixon, a rich merchant in London, that my
uncle had left my mother four hundred pounds a year as long as she did
not marry again, but at her death the said annuity was to be divided
between my two sisters, independent of any coverture. The residue and
bulk of the property was settled on me, under trust to Mr. Nixon until
I was of age, with a request that I should be brought up to the law and
entered as a barrister in the Inner Temple. Further, a sum of five
hundred pounds was allowed for a new outfit, in every way becoming to
all of us. Mr. Nixon announced that in a fortnight he would take the
opportunity of being in our neighbourhood to come over and make the
necessary arrangements consequent upon the altered state of affairs. He
added that the residue of the property would yield about one thousand
pounds a year, and that, therefore, my education must be looked to more
closely than it probably had been. Here was, indeed, a change. My
father had left the house and grounds, and something like six hundred
pounds a year in the funds, entirely to my mother as long as she
remained a widow, or until her death. Afterwards one hundred and fifty
pounds per annum to each of my sisters, and the house and residue to
me--a moderate income requiring other efforts to make it comfortable to
one's upbringing. Here I was now the heir eventually to something like
fifteen hundred pounds a year, two country houses, and a very fair
house besides attached to my uncle's house. You may easily imagine the
joy of the whole family when from somewhat pinched economy, we found
ourselves in easy circumstances, with at once quite double our previous
income. We indulged in somewhat wild dreams of what all this might
produce; but mamma brought us to our senses by informing us that until
I was of age Mr. Nixon would entirely control our destinies, and that
it was more than probable he would insist upon sending me to a public
school. This news dashed all our hopes to pieces with a vengeance,
because it was precisely on our greater freedom that we had been
counting, and now there was every probability our delightful
intercourse and delicious orgies would come to an abrupt termination.
We exchanged sad and crestfallen looks on hearing this from mamma, and
met in a very disconsolate humour that night in Miss Frankland's room;
but that charming and estimable woman cheered us up with the hope that
if a temporary separation did occur, it would only lead to our safer
and more perfect reunion hereafter.

"And, to tell you the truth," she said, "my dear Charlie, we have been
of late too much for you, and your health and constitution will benefit
by a forced inactivity, for I have observed some symptoms about you
lately that prove we three have taxed you too hard. I have no doubt I
shall be retained as governess to your sisters, and leave me alone to
keep them to a point that will not disappoint you when we meet again,
which must always occur at intervals of not longer than six months."

To our loving minds six months seemed an age. At the same time Miss
F.'s remarks had, to a certain extent, reassured us, and although we
could not enter into our orgie with the usual fury and letch,
nevertheless we managed to pass a night sufficiently rapturous in the
enjoyment of our libidinous passions, which many would have thought
excessive.

In due course Mr. Nixon made his appearance. He was a pleasant-looking
elderly gentleman, and a complete man of the world. Finding that I had
been educated entirely at home under governesses, he fancied I must be
a milk-and-watery ignorant youth, and had already hinted as much to
mamma--who, having told me, put me on my mettle. Mr. Nixon sent for me
into the parlour alone, and began an agreeable conversation apparently
leading to nothing, probably with a view not to render me nervous and
timid, gradually turning the conversation upon educational subjects. He
was agreeably surprised to find the progress I had made, not only in
historical and geographical subjects, but in languages, and above all
was surprised at my knowledge of Latin and Greek. He was particular in
asking if some clergyman had not lent his aid to the governess. After
dinner, during which he paid great attention to Miss Frankland, he
warmly complimented her on her system of teaching and its extraordinary
success. At the same time he observed that, as his dear old friend had
desired that his nephew should become a barrister, it would be
necessary he should be sent to some clergyman taking a few boys, and
then to King's College, London, before entering a barrister's chambers.
Miss Frankland at once admitted the justice of the remark, and hoped
that Charles would not shame her teaching.

"Quite the contrary, I assure you, Miss Frankland. I have been struck
with the admirable ground work you have established, and especially the
advantages you have given him of the knowledge of modern languages. I
am so much pleased that I intend to beg of Mrs. Roberts to keep you as
the able governess of the girls until they are so much older as to
require a little knowledge of the world which a metropolitan ladies'
school is sure to impart."

All this was said with a certain deference of manner to Miss Frankland,
that I felt certain the old gentleman was greatly struck with her
person, as well as her system of teaching. But of this it is probable
my readers will learn more hereafter.

My mother, hearing of the intention of sending me to some clergyman,
immediately suggested that her own brother-in-law, the Rev. Mr.
Brownlow, rector of Leeds, in Kent, a retired village close to the
castle of that name, would be a suitable person. He was a gentleman who
had taken honours at Cambridge, and was in the habit of receiving one,
two or even three young gentlemen, but never more, to prepare them for
the universities. At that moment she knew by a letter from her sister
that he had a vacancy. His name, she said, stood high as an instructor,
as Mr. Nixon would find on inquiry; and as Charles had never been away
from home, it would be a great satisfaction to her to know that he was
under the care of her own sister. Mr. Nixon said he perfectly agreed to
her suggestion, provided, as to which he had no doubt, his inquiries
justified his sending me there. He left us with a promise of an early
decision, and, indeed, before the week had passed we received his full
concurrence to my mother's suggestion. So my aunt was written to, and
it being the period of the holidays, Mr. and Mrs. Brownlow were asked
to come over and spend a week, and then I could return with them to
Kent. We had not seen aunt or uncle since we were little children, and
only remembered her as a very tall immense person. The distance had
prevented personal intercourse, and we only knew of them by
interchanges of hams, Canterbury brawn, and oysters at Christmas time.
As they replied by return of post, saying they would be with us in two
or three days following their letter, you may be sure Miss Frankland
and all of us made the most of what was to be the last of our mutual
orgies for the time. No restrictions were put upon us, and every night
was dedicated to the god of lust and voluptuousness.

At last the fatal day arrived. My mother and the two girls went into
the town to fetch uncle and aunt out, leaving Miss Frankland and me to
our studies. You may well suppose it was the prosody of love and not
that of grammar that occupied us. There was a tenderness of manner, and
a loving kindness and fondling, which I had not before observed in Miss
Frankland, and which I should have thought alien to her character.
Embracing me tenderly, and pressing me lovingly to her bosom, she burst
into a flood of tears, and sobbed as if her heart would break as her
head sank on my shoulder. I tried to comfort her in the best way I
could, and as my kind reader knows, a woman's tears always had a most
potent effect on my prick, I placed it in her hand, she hysterically
laughed amidst her crying, but instantly sank her head down to the
loved object, embraced, sucked, and frigged it until I poured a flood
of boiling sperm into her mouth, which she greedily swallowed, and
continued sucking until not a drop was left. Then rising once more to
caress and embrace me, she said--

"Yes, my own beloved boy, that was indeed a means to stop my tears, I
not only adore it, but have come to love you, my darling, more than I
ever loved anything in my life--you are my own scholar, bodily and
mentally. I shall miss you greatly, and I bitterly regret our parting;
but we shall meet again, although never with such freedom and ease as
we have done. You will spend your holidays at home, and we shall make
the most of them. I can feel the dear object already to be made the
most of again, and so it shall, dear fellow, so come to its own nest."

These last fond words were addressed to my prick, which, already
rampant again, was claiming attention. We went at it, hammer and tongs.
Recruited at luncheon, we renewed the raptures of lubricity as that
estimable woman alone knew how to indulge them. We were the less
reasonable, as it had been decided by us the night before that I was to
find out the habits of the coming couple before I should venture on
leaving my room to slip up to theirs, and thus I had a night of
relaxation before me.

At five o'clock the carriage drove up, and uncle and aunt were welcomed
to our house. My uncle was a tall, portly, unctuous-looking clergyman,
quite a gentleman in his manners, and with a very agreeable voice. My
aunt, who was some fifteen years my uncle's junior, was very tall for
her sex, a fine portly figure, broad shouldered, large bubbies well
apart, a small waist for her size, immense hips and evidently buttocks
to more than match. She was very stout, but stood firm upon her pins,
and walked with great elasticity of step, showing there was a good deal
in her, or rather she could take a good deal out of anybody. She had a
profusion of fair hair, with thick eyebrows, that promised abundance
elsewhere. Her eyes were of a deep blue that could look very far into
you. She had a very pleasing expression, a small mouth, and very white
teeth. Her complexion was exceedingly fair, her arms immense, but
beautifully formed, hands and feet small, fat and plump. She looked
thirty-five, but was nearly forty, and was altogether a most desirable
woman to look at, on a large scale. She embraced me tenderly, which I
did not fail to return, and complimented me and the whole family on our
late good fortune. The first introduction was altogether most
agreeable, and I already began to imagine I might not be so badly off
after all.

We were allowed to sit up rather later than usual, and as my aunt was
fatigued with her day and night's journey, they were glad to follow our
example almost immediately. I had only just time to get undressed, when
I heard them enter the room which Miss Frankland had vacated the
previous day. This had previously been arranged, and she now slept in
my sisters' room, as formerly, until we should depart. I quickly blew
out my light, for fear they should observe it shining through the
chinks I had made. Kneeling down, I began to watch the proceedings. The
first thing my aunt did was to squat on the pot just opposite my
peep-hole, and as she held up her dress well, I could see that she had
a most prominent mons Veneris, thickly covered with very fair ringlets.
Her power of piss was something wonderful, it was like a cataract in
force and quantity, and at once made my mutinous prick stand at the
mighty rush of waters that could be so plainly heard. As she rose, and
before she dropped her dress, I saw her splendid proportions of limb,
the like of which had never before met my eyes. Alas! it was but a
passing glimpse. However, I determined to watch on, hoping to see a
further display in the course of undressing. She took off all her upper
clothes, until nothing but her stays and chemise remained. I could now
mark the real grandeur of her proportions. The stays kept in the waist,
and allowed the splendour of her hips and buttocks to stand out in all
their glory. Never in my life have I seen a finer backside than my aunt
had got. I am now speaking from a vast amount of after-inspection and
adoration, but in its covered magnificence in which I at this moment
viewed it, it appeared the finest backside I have ever met with, and
was in fact the one I alluded to some time back, when I observed that
Miss Frankland's was the finest but one I ever saw. It is true, her
stoutness added greatly to its prominence, but though stout, even very
stout, it was not a stoutness you could call fat. For in
after-intimacy, which became of the very closest and most voluptuous
nature, I was never able to pinch her in any muscular part. She had the
hardest, as well as the biggest, backside I ever met with. I am quite
sure that when she was standing upright, a child might have stood on
the immense projections of her buttocks. Her thighs were positively
monstrous in their mighty proportions, as hard as iron, exquisitely
moulded, and of a fairness and smoothness that rivalled ivory, which,
in another respect, they much resembled, namely, in feeling cold to the
touch. Her legs were worthy of the glorious frame they supported, and
finished off with a pair of charming, clean-run ankles, and very small
feet for her size. As her chemise was short sleeved, the grand
magnificence and beauty of form of her splendid arms and neck, where
the bubbles came out in all their perfection and brilliancy of skin,
were fully displayed. As may be supposed, not a bone was to be traced
in her upper neck, but all was dazzling in colour and flesh, which is
such a beauty in woman. When a woman shows her gaunt collar bones, it
is a proof of bad breeding, and a common nature. Aunt's truly grand
bubbles rose magnificently over her bodice, which I thought at the time
was their support, but this glorious woman required nothing of the
sort, for when perfectly stripped, her bubbles stood out firm and
projecting in all their grandeur, and they were of the largest, worthy
of all her other fully developed charms. Her belly alone was somewhat
too prominent, when standing up, but as she never had had children, it
did not at all hang flabbily, and ended in one of the most prominent
and largely developed montis Veneris I have ever met with, profusely
covered with the fairest of curls, which did not prevent her lovely
creamy skin from shining through them. She was well provided with hair
on that part, but after the extraordinary hairy covering that Miss
Frankland possessed, and with which I had so often toyed, all other
women appeared as nothing in that way. My aunt, after donning a
night-robe, sat down to her toilet, and proceeded to let down her
massive bunch of tresses. Here, she was, indeed, richly gifted, her
hair was all her own, in the utmost profusion, and, tall as she was,
fell much below her buttocks, and was so thick that she could let it
spread over both back and front, and completely cover her nakedness.
Titian must have had such another magnificent head of hair for one of
his models, for it exactly resembled, except in being somewhat of a
fairer hue, his celebrated Magdalen, in the Pitti Palace, at Florence,
where she is represented covered only with the rich profusion of her
ringlets. Such was my aunt, and often and often afterwards has she
indulged all my fancies, by showing herself off in every voluptuous
attitude with this, the greatest ornament of woman, flowing in the
utmost profusion over her glorious and mighty charms. Meanwhile, the
doctor had undressed, but it may well be supposed perfectly unnoticed
by me. I had better game in view. He, too, had donned a _robe de
chambre_, and sat down by his wife to have a chat over the occurrences
of the day. Of course, their conversation very naturally turned upon
myself. They began by congratulating themselves that the good fortune
of the family was partly reflected on them by the circumstances of my
being put under the doctor's care. The lady remarked how doubly
fortunate it was, as the little scandal that had happened had, for some
time, prevented their having any pupils at all. The doctor said--

"Never mind that, my love, this little fellow will soon be the decoy
duck for others; he seems a nice, gentle lad, but I shall seek to have
some talk with him to-morrow, and see what he is made of; boys, under
women's instructions, are generally mere milk-sops."

"I don't think you will find it so in this case," added my aunt. "I am
not a bad judge of character, and I feel certain that Miss Frankland is
too stern and firm of purpose not to have bent any boy's will to her
bidding; I fear, on the contrary, she has, if anything, been too severe
with him, for my sister told me that she had full power to wield the
rod, but, after one or two severe bouts, she completely mastered them,
and that their progress was really very great, and most satisfactory,
as Mr. Nixon, Charles's guardian, who had examined him, had reported
most favourably thereon. But he appears to be insignificant, and
undersized, thin as a whipping post, pale, and somewhat sickly-looking,
he appears much younger than he is, and seems hardly fitted for what
you and I would delight in. Eh! dear doctor?"

I did not understand at this time what her allusion meant, but it was
followed by the doctor stooping forwards, kissing her, and, I have no
doubt, tongueing her too. He first thrust a hand below her beauteous
bubbles, and then pulling up her chemise, began foraging between her
legs. She put down her hair brush; and laid hold of his cock, but
quickly said--

"Don't excite me, my dear, you see this poor fellow can do nothing
without a rod, and we have none here, so be quiet and go to bed, that
is a good boy."

Obeying her, he rose, threw off his robe, put on a nightcap, and
tumbled into bed, and was sound asleep before his magnificent spouse
had finished her toilet. When it was concluded, she took off her stays,
and drew her chemise over her head, I doubt if it could have fallen
over her enormous buttocks. She then walked across the room in my
direction, stark naked as nature made her, and strikingly magnificent
in the firmness of her tread, and the glorious uprightness of her truly
superb grandeur of form. I was positively awestruck. I could imagine
her to be Juno in all her glory before Jupiter, and well he might be
tempted to stray to the forbidden path of love, if Juno had such a
backside as the enormous and glorious one my aunt possessed. She again
squatted down, naked as she was, and poured out another torrent into
the pot. I felt overpowered at the sight, and staggered back to my bed,
and for the first time in my life felt constrained to rack off by
self-pollution the excess of lust the gazing on such superhuman
beauties had engendered. I could hardly refrain from shouting out to
relieve my till then suppressed excitement, especially when nature gave
way, and there spurted forth a jet of sperm, actually from the bed
against the door towards which I had pointed my prick while wildly
frigging it, and in imagination shoving it into aunt--anywhere; for if
ever the saying that "there was plenty of good fucking about all these
parts" was applicable to any one, it was supremely so in my glorious
aunt's case. Any one might shove his prick against any part of her
body, and spend at once from excess of lust, at her very beauty and
splendour of form and exquisite colour and fineness of skin. Never,
never have I met her equal. Her power of fuck, too, was on a par with
the immensity of size, and of a quality to please the most fastidious,
or the most lustful. Such were the first experiences that I had of my
aunt's person, and as my narrative extends, the reader will become more
intimate with her person and proceedings. I sank to sleep, to dream of
possessing her in every way, rivalling Jupiter with Juno, and Mars with
Venus, mere visions of the night, but which were in after-days
converted into sweet realisations of the most voluptuous and rapturous
nature.

The next day, at our hour of recreation, Miss Frankland walked out with
us, and seeking a retired part of the grounds, while the girls amused
themselves, I recounted to Miss F. all I had seen and heard. She at
once came to the conclusion that I was destined to fall into the arms
of my aunt.

"I am so far pleased, my dear Charlie, that it will be into those of an
extraordinary fine woman; you must, after your present experiences with
me, have had some one to go to, and certainly you could not have a
finer. There will, evidently, be every facility, for I read those
hints, which have puzzled you, as intimating any thing but reserve once
you are admitted into the inner arcana of their lives, or I am much
mistaken. There is one point I must strongly caution you about, and
your general prudence and great good sense will make you appreciate its
importance. Your aunt is evidently much experienced in erotic
pleasures. If at once she found in you the extraordinary adept you are,
she would never cease tormenting you until she discovered who had been
your instructress. Now it must be evident to you that if she thought
you and I were intimate in that way, she might draw evil inferences
with regard to your sisters, or if not going so far as to think we had
equally corrupted them, it is probable enough she might seek to remove
me from their society. So you see, my darling boy, though it may be
very difficult to do, you must, for all our sakes, determine to appear
quite innocent and ignorant of every thing connected with indulgence in
amorous passions. You must not let yourself appear excited, but leave
her to take all the initiatory steps, and I much mistake if she will
not be extremely ready to do so, but all the more so if she finds you
apparently innocent. However much you now know of love's proceedings,
you must keep a guarded check upon your feelings, so as not to let your
knowledge become apparent in the smallest degree. She will, eventually,
be twice as well pleased if she fancies she has had your first fruits.
Before you leave I shall give you some short hints as to how to conduct
yourself."

All this time I was getting rampageous, so begging her to stoop forward
upon a stump, I tilted up her petticoats and fucked her from behind,
frigging her delicious clitoris, and making her spend at the same time
as myself. It was a hasty fly, but very sweet nevertheless, for we were
both conscious that it was necessary to make the most of the short time
I had yet to remain at home. I mentioned my aunt's remark about having
no rod at hand, and it was agreed that Miss Frankland should put one on
an upper shelf of her wardrobe, and accidently leave the key in the
door. As this wardrobe remained in the room uncle and aunt were
sleeping in, woman's curiosity was sure to induce an examination of it.
This answered a double purpose, for Miss F. so arranged things that
some excellent books full of little bits of paper inserted here and
there, at highly moral or religious passages, led both uncle and aunt
to have a very high idea of her moral character--for these were works
that apparently could only be for her own private reading.

The rod was placed, and the bait laid next day. Meanwhile, that
afternoon, the doctor called me aside, and put me through a
conversational sort of examination. I was studiously modest, but being
very fairly grounded by the admirable system of teaching pursued by
Miss Frankland, I not only satisfied him, but he took occasion to
compliment Miss Frankland very highly for the admirable groundwork she
had laid. I fancied also, as he continued in conversation with her,
that he grew more kindly and unctuous, as if the spirit of lust was
infusing itself in his veins, as he continued to converse with and gaze
on that most engaging and lust-creating creature.

That night I watched, as before, their preparations for sleep, and
heard their conversation. This time the doctor was profuse in his
praise of me, but aunt thought I was timid and lifeless; there seemed
no spirit about me, as there ought to be, she added, at his age, but
this education by females makes girls of boys. I thought to myself, I
guess, I shall very soon undeceive you on that point, my dear aunt. The
doctor went quietly to bed; aunt stripped and used the bidet, giving me
a most exciting and voluptuous view of all her full-blown charms. No
sooner was her light out, and she in bed, than I slipped out and crept
up to my sisters' room, where three randy cunts were impatiently
awaiting my advent with an equally randy and inflamed pego. We indulged
in every complicated combination of lust and lubricity, and never
ceased until daylight forced my unwilling retreat. Before leaving, as
the rod was to be put in the wardrobe, and the key left in the door,
it was arranged that the next night the girls, and Miss F., too, if she
could, were to endeavour to sleep soundly before I came. For if our
stratagem succeeded, I should remain to see the result which would
probably occupy more than an hour or two, and I would awaken them by
applying Moses's rod to their water courses as doubtless I would be in
a rampageous state, if our expectations of the doctor's and aunt's
tendencies that way were realised.

I kept myself awake until aunt and uncle came to bed, and then I
immediately placed myself _en vedette_. At first no notice was taken of
the key being in the lock. Aunt continued her operations, and uncle
became somewhat more tentative than usual, when aunt, finding by
placing her hand on his prick that it was mere useless desire, rose and
scolded him. He grew more emboldened, and followed her up, wishing to
feel her splendid cunt. It so happened she had drawn back as far as the
wardrobe itself, until the key actually hurt her back.

"Ah what have we here?" she cried, and then turning round, said that as
the key had been left in the lock, there could be no harm in looking
in. Her husband became as curious as she. Of course, the first things
they saw were the prearranged books. They were seized upon with avidity
probably with the expectation of finding something smutty, but to their
surprise, and especially that of the doctor, it was quite the reverse.

"Well, I should never have thought this; do you know, my dear, I had
begun to suspect that, under a demure exterior, there was lurking an
enormous deal of animal passion in that Miss Frankland, but if so,
these works prove that it is under complete regulation. More's the
pity, for she is made for the real enjoyment of the passions."

"Oh you have been speculating in that quarter, have you, you old
lecher?"

"Well, my dear, you know we have both liberty to stray now and then,
and you, yourself, have not a little availed yourself on our mutual
understanding."

"Now, doctor, you are too bad; do I not quite overlook all your
weakness for the younger members of your own sex, and do I not lend
myself to your fantasies in that way, when chance deprives you of any
opportunity of pederasty?"

"Well, well, my love, I was not upbraiding you, you are too dear and
too kind to me to permit of any thing beyond a joking allusion; but
what have we here? A birch rod! by all that is holy."

Reaching up to the high shelf, he drew down the rod. At first they
suspected Miss Frankland operating on herself, but the perfectly
untouched state of the rod proved that it was there in reserve only,
and had not yet been used.

"What a lucky chance," cried my aunt. "I shall now be able to birch you
into something like a fit state to fuck me--and you shall birch me
afterwards, if it will only produce a second fuck, back or front,
whichever you like."

"You are an angel, my darling wife, and I shall try to content both
orifices; it is an abominable shame that with such a gloriously made
magnificent woman as God has given me in your noble form, I should ever
require any other stimulant than a glance at your exquisitely exciting
proportions; but I suppose it is age that weakens our sensibilities."

"You are right, my dear John, for I, who used to think your dear old
cock was enough for me, find I require the excitement of younger ones
to give me the real excess of pleasure my constitution demands; it
would be a shame if I did not humour all your little caprices, when you
so readily throw opportunities in my way. I only wish this nephew of
mine had been more worthy of us, we should have made him a glorious
_bonne bouche_ between us, equally to his satisfaction as to ours."

"Well, my dear, the air of Kent, and more manly treatment, may yet
develop his somewhat stinted growth, and under your tuition, he may yet
prove not so bad an object as you seem to think, at all events, he may
serve as a _pis aller_, until a better turns up; but you must proceed
with caution, for he seems as modest as a maid."

"My dear John, your modest ones always make the best, when once broken
in. I only wish his physique had been more to my liking, but we shall
see, we shall see; meanwhile let us both strip to the buff, and proceed
to make the most of this happy discovery of the rod--the very thing we
most wanted and wished for."

Aunt rapidly twisted up her magnificent tresses, and as rapidly
stripped to the skin; the doctor likewise. I assure you he was a
well-made, muscular, portly, handsome man, with a large well-filled
pair of cods. His pego still hung down his head, but had a certain
amount of size, doubtless stimulated by the exciting nature of their
conversation and reminiscences. His skin and his cock were beautifully
white, and the ball of his prick of a tempting scarlet. I felt at the
moment that, if I dared, I would have bolted into the room, and sucked
it into such a stiffness as would have instantly satisfied the
insatiable cunt of my glorious aunt. This was a delight to be left for
a future day, when I allowed the doctor all the credit and pleasure of
persuading me to do that which I was burning with desire to do. But I
digress. No sooner were both fully prepared than my aunt, in a stern
voice, ordered the doctor to approach.

"Come here, sir, I must whip you, you have not done your duty as you
ought lately, and you are a very naughty boy."

The doctor, putting on the air of a schoolboy, begged to be excused
this time, but his inexorable mistress was not to be moved, and seizing
him by the arm, pulled him over her broad and massive thighs, and with
one arm round his waist, seized his cock in her hand, and began
whacking away at his backside in such real earnest and, apparently,
with all the force of her powerful arm, that I began to think the
doctor must cry out in earnest. But he took it all without a murmur,
only wriggling his fat and smooth buttocks about in a way that rather
inferred satisfaction than suffering. Presently my aunt, who,
doubtless, knew by the grip of his prick that matters had arrived at
the point her own passions had most at heart, lifted him up, and said--

"Now I must put you in pickle, but as your great red buttocks are too
large to be pickled, I shall pickle your prick instead. So come here,
sir, and let me put this rampant fellow into my pickle tub, where, I
promise, the salt brine will soon bring down his pride."

I suppose this was the sort of childish yet lascivious talk which
pleased them both, for uncle, who had risen, and who now presented a
much finer weapon than I had given him credit for, pretended to fear
this further punishment, and begged and entreated to be let off--he had
been punished enough, &c., &c. Aunt, however, leading him by the prick
to the bed, threw herself on the edge, and lying back, drew up her
enormous thighs almost to her belly, and showed to my gloating gaze her
tremendous salmon-coloured gash, all covered with spunk, for the
operation had made her spend profusely. I never saw so large a cunt,
nor such an extensive triangle as lay on the side of each lip between
it and the commencement of the buttocks, beautifully covered with the
fairest curls.

"There, sir, is your place of punishment, stoop and kiss it before I
imprison your indecent cock within it."

The doctor, nothing loath, stooped and gamahuched her so well that her
mighty backside wriggled beneath his head, and made every thing in the
room jingle; her hand pressed his head until I thought it would have
been pushed in altogether. At last, she spent with a shout of delight.
He hastily gobbled it all up, and rising, without more ado, thrust his
stiff-standing weapon up to the hilt, I might almost say cods and all,
in her longing and magnificent cunt. Here, he soaked for some minutes,
and I could see by the convulsive movements of her backside how much
aunt was enjoying it. They soon became bent on more active movements,
for throwing her splendid legs over his back, she began an up and down
movement, much more active than I could in any way have given her
credit for. They went at it in real earnest for a longer time than I
expected, but when the mighty crisis came, it was with an energy, and
passionate struggles worthy of the strength and substance of the two
love wrestlers. I could see her cunt all foam again around the roots of
the increased size of uncle's very respectable prick, and then they lay
in apparent apathy for full twenty minutes, but one could see by the
convulsive throbs of their whole bodies what delicious transports of
rapture they were enjoying. Uncle was the first to rise, but only to
stoop and to greedily lick up all the foaming spunk which the
wide-spread entrance to her glorious cunt exhibited. This being done,
she, too, rose, and throwing her arms round the doctor's neck, drew his
mouth to hers, and seemed to suck his slimy lips, and gain for herself
as much as she could of the delicious spunk the doctor had been
revelling in. This lasted some minutes. Then my aunt turned him down on
the bed, and took a long suck at his prick, now hanging limp, but still
of a goodly thickness. Then she thanked him for the great satisfaction
he had given her, and declared it was almost as good as the first days
of their union. Then after toying and cuddling on the bed for a time,
she said they must now proceed to a little further castigation, on her
bottom this time, as he had promised to give her a double dose.

"Yes, my love, but you know you promised I should take my choice of
which temple I should make my sacrifice at."

"My own John, you know, that after being once well fucked, the hinder
hole is my preference, that is understood."

They accordingly rose, and uncle, furnishing himself with the rod,
desired aunt to kneel on the edge of the bed, and present her
magnificent backside projecting out fair for his birching. This she
immediately did, and being directly before my eyes, I had a full front
view of her gloriously large wide-open cunt, and all the pinky brown
_aureola_ around her charming bottom-hole, over which the little fair
ringlets showed in great beauty. I need not say that my own John Thomas
was in all the pride and panoply of prickdom, and ready to burst with
excitement. My uncle took the rod in hand as soon as aunt was in
position, and placing himself on one side, while his left hand passed
under her belly to frig her clitoris, he had his right hand free to
inflict any amount of whipping. And, I must say, neither one nor the
other spared the rod; they laid it on right soundly, but drew forth no
word or sign of complaint. My aunt soon began to wriggle her stupendous
backside, in a way to show how very exciting the birching was to her.
Her exquisitely creamy white skin began to see the scarlet of the blood
rushing to the surface under the infliction received. The redder it
became, so did the evident palpitating movement of her two resplendent
orbs increase, until uncle, too, showed how the glorious sight was
stimulating his less easily excited system, by the stiffening and
uprising of his pego. Aunt's hand slipped down to it, and being well
acquainted with its habits, pronounced it to be as equally ready as
herself. Turning her body lengthways, but still on her knees, the
doctor scrambled up behind her, and first stooping, licked up the foam
on her cunt, for she had already spent once; and then, rolling his
tongue about the beautiful indentation leading to her delicious
bottom-hole, he thrust it in as far as he could there. Then rising on
his knees, he first plunged his jolly good prick into her cunt for two
or three shoves, and then drawing it out well lubricated, presented its
point to her exquisite bottom-hole, and plunged it up to the hilt at a
single thrust. Aunt gave a cry and shudder of delight as she felt it
penetrate to her very entrails. The doctor, satisfied for the moment,
lay soaking in the exquisite pressure that aunt's _sphincter ani_ was
applying to his happy prick. He looked down upon her glorious buttocks,
handling them with evident pleasure. I saw aunt's hand steal down to
her cunt, and could observe that she was actively frigging her
clitoris. She shortly cried out to uncle not to be so idle, but to
commence the delicious movements she expected from him.

He did--they did; and such a scene of excitement it was to see so
magnificent a woman with such a mighty backside in all the agonies of
enjoyment that I could hold out no longer, but seizing my bursting
prick in my hand, two or three rapid movements up and down, and tight
graspings of the shaft, brought on the ecstatic rapture of so
lascivious a spend that I actually fainted and fell heavily on the
floor. It was fortunate that aunt and uncle were so hotly engaged that
an earthquake might have shook the house without their being conscious
of it. So as I only fell from my knees it never disturbed one moment of
their pleasure. I must have been some minutes without consciousness,
for when I came to my senses, and was able to resume my inspection, I
found their crisis was past, but that uncle still lay soaking in the
narrow cell he so delightfully occupied. He was gazing with evident
pleasure on the still palpitating buttocks of the divine backside
immediately below him. Neither was in any hurry, but they dwelt for a
considerable space of time in this repose of lubricity. At last, his
cock, reduced in bulk, slipped out of its close quarters. Then, rising,
and helping aunt out of bed, they warmly embraced each other, kissed
and tongued, and aunt thanked him for a most rapturous fuck. Aunt then
sat down on her bidet, and uncle used the wash basin. After purifying
themselves, and aunt showing all the extraordinary fine development of
her glorious form, they put on their night-dresses, blew out the
lights, and tumbled into bed. I immediately hastened to gain my
sisters' room, with my cock standing stiffer than ever. I entered
gently--they were all asleep. My two sisters lay reversed, with their
heads between each pair of thighs; they had evidently fallen asleep
after a mutual gamahuche in the very attitude in which they had spent.
Miss Frankland had apparently waited for me, but feeling drowsy, had
thrust her very fine hairy backside right out of bed, ready to attract
my attention the moment I should come. So gently approaching, and
bringing the light to bear on the beautiful sight, I spit upon and
lubricated the end of my prick, and very gently introduced him into her
ever delicious cunt. I managed to fully engulph it before applying my
finger to her bottom-hole, and my other hand to her clitoris. She had
already in her sleep involuntarily squeezed me with her usual force.
Then, suddenly applying all my energies, I began an active movement,
which instantly awoke her. She was as ready for the sport as I was, and
in a very few minutes we ran a most rapturous course of intense
delight, and spent with an energy which proved the strength of the
excitement I had been under. As I was standing by the bedside, and she
lying on it with her fine bottom projecting beyond the edge, it was not
a position to remain long in; besides, I was still dressed. So,
withdrawing, I undressed myself. My sisters had slept through all this,
so first preparing everything for an excessive orgie, by getting out
dildoes and birch rods, we awoke the two darlings, who, rising,
stripped to the buff. The three dear creatures were all curiosity to
know what had kept me so long--more than two hours and a half, and what
had been done.

I recounted all the proceedings, except in so far as they had talked of
initiating me, for neither Miss Frankland nor I wished my sisters to be
acquainted with that matter. They laughed heartily, and little Lizzie
said she must act aunt, first flog me and be fucked; then be flogged by
me, and have my darling prick up her bottom-hole to follow. We laughed
and humoured her, and that scene came off with considerable _eclat_.
Miss Frankland fucking Mary, for whom she had a great letch, in the
cunt first, and in the bottom, after my example on Lizzie, in the
second place. Lizzie and I then laved our parts and prepared for fresh
encounters, and we then began a more regular course of the most
lascivious lubricity, in which dildoes and rods played conspicuous
parts, both becoming necessary under the excessive indulgencies of
these last few nights. I stole to my room long after daylight, and
slept soundly for an hour or two. You may be sure our lessons were of
the lightest in these few days that were left us, and I was allowed to
doze off during school hours.

Miss Frankland again walked with me alone in the garden, to give me, as
she thought, last lessons in the way I should act with aunt, who she
now felt more certain than ever would very soon attack and carry my
person when she reached home and had the place and time all to herself.
I listened with apparently great attention; as the reader knows, I was
already an adept in the art she wished to indoctrinate--thanks to the
admirable advice of my ever charming real first instructress, the
lovely Mrs. Benson. But I could not help thinking how completely these
two admirable women had the same wisdom and knowledge of the world with
which they were so anxious that I, too, should become conversant.

The next night the doctor and aunt went quietly to bed, the doctor
declaring that his previous night's doings would prevent any more that
night. So I only had one more gaze at all aunt's magnificent beauties,
which had a never failing effect on my excitable weapon, and which she
sent away when her light was put out in a perfectly fit state for the
work that awaited him in my sisters' room. I came upon them sooner than
expected, and found the three rolled into one body, two gamahuching
each other, and Miss Frankland's clitoris in Mary's bum-hole. For a
wonder they did not hear me as I gently opened the door, and I
patiently waited till the lascivious crisis brought down a delicious
spend from them all. When clapping my hands applaudingly, I cried--

"Bravo! bravo! encore!"

I was so far glad, for to confess the truth the pace was telling, and I
began to require more and more of the rod. However, we had but this and
the next night at our disposal, and the knowledge that we must soon
cease our delicious orgies nerved us all to increased efforts.

Again our passions raged furiously, and broke out in spurts of foaming
sperm. Every desire our lascivious lubricity could suggest was carried
out to increase our pleasures or renew our exhausted resources, until
time warned us again to separate.

The next day there was no school time--it was spent in packing and
preparing for departure. My poor mother took it much to heart--she was
a most affectionate creature, as innocent as a babe. I often wondered
where we three got all the natural wantonness of our characters, for
mamma had nothing of it. I suppose it must have come from our
grandparents, as aunt had it in the fullest degree, and was almost the
equal of the adorable Miss Frankland, who only excelled her in having
Greek blood in her veins, which, doubtless, accounted for the extreme
heat of her lubricity. Some day I will recount the chief events of her
romantic story, which she herself, in after-time, fully related to me.
The day was a sad one for us all, even sadder than the next, the actual
day of departure. As often happens, the anticipation of evils is
greater than the reality when they come.

That night my aunt and the doctor had another whipping bout, but this
time she only succeeded in getting a single course out of the doctor.
As before when all was over, I slipped away to pass the last delicious
night with the dear creatures with whom I had now carried on the most
rapturous orgies for more than two years past. My sisters were rapidly
developing into remarkably handsome fine young women, especially Mary,
who, having the advantage of a year and a half over Lizzie, was
naturally more filled out and formed, although Lizzie promised in the
end to be, and in fact became, the finest woman, and had also by far
the hotter temperament of the two. We passed the night in orgies the
most refined, interspersed with tears of regret at our parting, and
soft endearments leading to perfect furies of lubricity, until I was
nearly fainting with exhaustion. We tore ourselves asunder with
difficulty, and the three angelic creatures held their door open, and
with streaming eyes watched my receding form; twice, on looking back, I
could not help returning again and again to throw myself into their
arms for a last loving embrace; but like all things human it came to an
end, and I reached my bed and sobbed myself to sleep.

It is needless to dwell on our parting next day. My mother accompanied
us to the town where we were to take a coach. It drove up. My poor
mother could hardly utter her blessing and farewell, and I saw the
tears coursing down her venerable cheeks as she waved her handkerchief
before the coach turned the corner that shut us from her view. Of
course my heart was full, whose could be otherwise when quitting home
for the first time. My aunt put her arm round my waist, and laid my
head on her ample bosom, and comforted me as well as she could; but a
full heart must vent itself. Fortunately, we had the inside all to
ourselves. My aunt was very tender, and so was the doctor. I soon
sobbed myself to sleep; even in the bitter grief of the moment I had
some slight comfort in the idea of pressing those glorious orbs. My
aunt frequently kissed me, and I returned it with full pouting lips,
which I fancied rather pleased her. I slept until the coach stopped for
supper, ate heartily, and, as may be supposed after my late week of
hard work, soon again slept like a top.

I did not awake until it was broad daylight, and, like all heavy
sleepers, was awake and sensible of what was going on before opening my
eyes. I became conscious that a hand was gently pressing and apparently
taking the size of my standing pego, which the pressure of water on my
bladder had occasioned to be in an erection of the hardest. I lay quite
still, continuing to breathe heavily, but unable to prevent sundry
throbbings of my pego, occasioned by the soft hand of my aunt, who was
gently following its form from the outside of my trousers. It appeared
she had only just commenced her manipulations, not having previously
observed the bulging out of its large dimensions under my trousers. She
pressed her knee against that of the doctor opposite, who I presume,
was dozing off, and in a whisper I heard her draw his attention to my
extraordinary development.

"Feel it, my dear, but very gently, so as not to waken him, it is the
largest prick I have ever felt, and altogether beats the late Captain
of Grenadiers you used to be so jealous of."

The doctor did feel, and I think aunt would have unbuttoned my
trousers, had not the coach suddenly pulled up at the inn we were to
breakfast at. So perforce they shook me up. I acted the suddenly
awakened sleeper very well. As soon as we were out of the coach, I
whispered to the doctor--

"If you please, uncle, I want to piddle very bad."

"Come here, my dear boy."

And taking me behind some wagons in the innyard, where we would not be
seen, he said--

"Here, we can both piss down this grating."

And, forsooth, to encourage me, pulled out his own standing pego. I saw
what he wanted, and out with my own in all its length and strength.

"Good heavens, Charles, what an immense cock you have got--does it
often stand like that?"

"Yes, uncle, every morning it hurts me so until I piddle--it gets worse
and worse, and bigger and bigger--it was not half so big a year ago. I
don't know what to do to cure myself of this hardness, which is very
painful."

"Ah, well, I must speak to your aunt, perhaps she can help you. Have
you ever spoken to anybody else about it?"

"Oh, dear no! I should have been quite ashamed; but when I saw you also
had the same hardness, I was very glad to ask your advice, dear uncle."

"Quite right. Always consult me about that part of your body, whatever
you may feel."

We breakfasted, and I could see, on regaining the coach, that uncle and
aunt had a satisfactory exchange of words on the subject. We got to the
Rectory in Kent in time for dinner, at which I was the object of great
and devoted attention of both, especially of my aunt.

Our previous long journey made an early retreat to bed a necessity for
all of us. They both conducted me with much _empressement_ to my
bedroom, a very comfortable one, having a communication at one end with
a corridor, and, on the right-hand side entering, another door
communicating with my uncle's dressing-and bath-room, and these opening
into their bedroom, which had a similar dressing-room on the other side
fitted up with wardrobes for female gear, and dedicated to my aunt's
sole use. I was left to a quiet night's rest, which I most thoroughly
enjoyed, and slept profoundly until late in the morning. I was awakened
by my uncle drawing all the clothes off me. Of course, I was rampant,
as usual. He gazed for a moment or two without speaking at my enormous
cock at full stand. He then said it was nine o'clock, and breakfast was
ready, that he had not liked to disturb me sooner, as I was in so sound
a slumber, but now it was time for me to get up.

"I see," he added, "that your doodle, as you call it, has got the
hardness you spoke of yesterday."

Then he laid hold of it, and gently squeezed it--it filled his grasp.
He evidently enjoyed the pleasure of handling it, but contented himself
with saying that my aunt must see to giving me some remedy the next
day, when she should come and inspect it in the morning, so as to see
how hard it was, and how it hurt me.

I replied that it would be very kind of aunt, but what would she think
of my showing my doodle to her; mamma had told me, when I slept in her
room, always to piddle in a corner, and never let anyone see it.

He laughed at my apparent simplicity, and said--

"Your mamma was quite right as to people in general, but it is quite a
different thing with your aunt, whose close relationship authorises her
doing what she can to relieve her dear nephew, in whom we both take
such an interest; besides, I suppose your mamma never saw it in this
size and hardness?"

He was gently handling it all the time of our conversation.

"Oh, no! mamma never saw it but at night, when it was quite shrunk up,
and that is nearly a year ago, when I used to sleep in her room; it is
since then it has grown so large and hurts so much, and throbs so
violently as it is doing now in your hand. It makes me feel so queer,
dear uncle, and I shall be so much obliged to dear auntie if she will
but give me a remedy to relieve the pain I suffer."

He laughed again, and said--

"I shall speak to your aunt, and we shall see--we shall see; but get up
now, we shall find your aunt waiting for us. So make haste and dress;
come down stairs, you will find us in the dining-room."

He left me, and I could hear him laughing to himself, as he walked
along the corridor, doubtless at my apparent innocent simplicity. I saw
at once that I should be called upon to show myself a man next day; but
I already felt the advantage of the advice both my admirable mistresses
had given me, as to making all new conquests believe that they had my
first fruits. I determined to adhere to the game I was playing, and I
foresaw that the pleasure of supporting such a thing would greatly
enhance the delight aunt would naturally take in being fucked by my
really monstrous cock. I was soon down to breakfast, and was most
warmly embraced by my gloriously beautiful aunt, who, in a graceful
dishabille, looked more charming than ever. She hugged me for more than
a minute in her arms, and devoured me with kisses. I have no doubt the
doctor had recounted our interview, and by the sparkle of her eye, and
the flush on her face, as she so closely embraced me, she showed that
already her passions were excited, and she was longing for the hour in
which she could indulge them. However, all that day, they were kept
under restraint. The doctor had some parish business to attend to, and
aunt leaving me for an hour after breakfast, while she attended to some
necessary household affairs, afterwards took me all over the house and
grounds, and then we had a walk through the village. The house was one
of those snug rectory houses situated in their own grounds which abound
in England, but few have so glorious a prospect as was seen from the
front of the house. Leeds, in Kent, is situated on the ridge of hills
running east and west, and commanding views over the rich and beautiful
weald of Kent. The rectory faced the south, and the ground falling
rapidly beyond the garden left a splendid landscape in full view.
Although close to the village and the church, both were planted out by
a thick belt of evergreen trees, which extended to north and east,
sheltering the house and grounds from every adverse wind. The house
itself was very commodious, but unassuming. The south front had a large
projecting half-circle, with three windows in it and a window on each
side of the half-circle; this formed the drawing-room below and my
uncle's bedroom, and two dressing-rooms above. To the right, looking at
the house, there was a wing with an open-arched passage leading to a
greenhouse and vinery, while above ran a suite of three rooms, each
with one good-sized window overlooking the garden. These were the three
rooms kept for the same number of young gentlemen who might be taken in
for preparation for the University--a number the doctor never exceeded.
Of these rooms I was at present the only occupant. They were built so
as to be shut off from all the rest of the house by a door on the
landing, leading into the corridor, from which a door communicated with
the doctor's dressing-room, and with each of the three rooms. At the
end was a water-closet for general use. I have already mentioned the
first of these rooms had a second door of communication with the
doctor's dressing-room, and this was appropriated to me. Below these
rooms, but looking north, and communicating with the village by a
covered way and having a playground into which it looked, was the
school-room, taking up about half the space of the rooms above. Beyond
the covered way to the village was a quiet garden square, into which
the doctor's study looked. This study was separated by a passage from
the school-room, and had double baize doors both on the house and
school-room sides. It was in fact the doctor's sanctum sanctorum, of
which more will be told in the sequel. In this manner the school-room
part of the house was quite shut off from the rest, and was nowhere
overlooked. To return to the habitable part. The west front contained a
small library, opening from the drawing-room, and beyond a comfortable
dining-room, communicating with the kitchen and offices, which
overlooked the courtyard of the entrance to the house, above these were
the domestics' bedrooms, &c. The entrance was from the north into a
handsome entrance-hall, with a good broad staircase leading to the
upper landing, which, turning westward, led to three extra bedrooms
above the library and dining-room. It was thus a very convenient house
and well-adapted for a clergyman adding scholastic duties to his other
ministrations. I forgot to say that the first bedroom, in the west
wing, had a door of communication with my aunt's dressing-room, which I
afterwards found had often served for amorous propensities by making it
the bedroom of some favoured lover. The grounds were charmingly laid
out with a profusion of flowers. There was a perfectly shaded walk in
the east shrubbery leading from the greenhouse down to a most charming
summer house overlooking the very finest prospect, and perfectly secure
from all observation. It was furnished very appropriately for amorous
purposes, the couches being low, broad, and with patent
spring-cushions. In the sequel it was the scene of many a bout of
lubricity. My aunt took me through all that I have described. When we
arrived at the summer house, I could see that it was with difficulty
she restrained her great desire to possess me; I would most willingly
have rushed into her longing arms, and fucked her to her heart's
content, but prudence withheld. I had undertaken to act a part, and
must go through with it. No doubt aunt was withheld by a similar
motive. She and the doctor had resolved that nothing to alarm my
modesty-heaven save the mark!--was to be attempted till the next
morning. So with a deep sigh she led me away from the summer house into
the village, where we met the doctor, and returned to luncheon. After
luncheon the doctor took me for a walk again through the picturesque
village along the ridge of hills, to enjoy the beautiful views of Leeds
Castle, the doctor giving me very many interesting historical details
connected with it. After a most pleasant and lengthened walk we
returned in time to dress for dinner. I found that one of the rules of
the house was that no matter, whether alone or with company the doctor
invariably insisted on regular evening costume at dinner-time. This has
many advantages. In the first place it gives at least half an hour's
occupation, an object in itself worth something to persons living in
the country, and then it gives a _cachet_ or rather _chic_ to your
dinner party, however small it may be, and is in itself a certain
amount of restraint on excessive exuberance of spirits, and thus may be
considered as a disciplinary element of education tending to keep up
that reserve and self-restraint characteristic of Englishmen.

Beyond a marked attention to me in every way, our dinner and evening
passed without anything worthy of record. I was evidently high in their
favour, probably for the reason that both began to have great hopes
that I would serve their purpose in every way. We retired early to
rest, and I thus obtained three nights of uninterrupted rest,
recruiting me after all the excesses I had indulged in before quitting
home. It was so far fortunate, that I was thus ready to satisfy the
strong passions of my aunt, who was insatiable when once her lust was
let loose. I awoke earlier than on the previous morning, and shortly
afterwards, hearing a movement in the doctor's dressing-room, I feigned
sleep. It was as I expected, the doctor coming to me in company with my
aunt. They approached my bedside. I had laid myself on my back
purposely to allow the thin summer-covering to be lifted up and bulged
out by my stiff-standing pego. I heard the doctor whisper to aunt, to
draw her attention to it. She gently slipped her hand under the
clothes, and grasped it in her soft fat fingers, upon which it throbbed
so violently that I thought it politic to waken at once. My aunt was
not at all put out, but held it still in her hand with a gentle
pressure. She said--

"My dear nephew, your uncle has brought me to see if I cannot relieve
the extreme hardness and pain you feel in this immense thing of yours.
Let me see it."

She now threw off the coverlet, and brought to light my large prick in
all the glory of the stiffest stand.

"My word! what a monster!" she cried.

Her eyes sparkled, and her face flushed as the sight met her full gaze.
The doctor approached, and also handled it with evident delight.

"My dear, will you be able to put it into your natural warm bath? It is
so very large!"

"Oh! I have not the slightest doubt but that I shall be able to soothe
and deliver it of all pain--poor fellow, how it throbs! Does it hurt
much, dear Charles?"

"Oh, yes; your hand seems to make it even harder than before, but, at
the same time makes me feel so very queer, as if I were going to faint.
Do relieve me, dear auntie, the doctor says you can if you like."

"I will do so, certainly, my dear boy; but the method is a great
secret, known only to your uncle and myself; and you must assure me you
will never mention it to any one, or tell how I cured you. It is only
my strong affection for you that makes me anxious to do anything I can
to relieve you. Do you promise to be discreet?"

"My dear aunt, you may be sure I shall be too much obliged to you ever
to think of revealing your great kindness. Do, pray, do it at once; I
feel so queer, and I am bursting with pain."

"Well, then, make room for me beside you, and I shall lie down; the
doctor will cover us up, and I shall soon reduce the stiffness."

She got into bed, lay down on her back, pulled the sheet over us,
laying bare her splendid belly, and, at the same time, opening her
magnificent limbs and desiring me to get upon her, telling me she had a
sheath in her body, which, when my hard doodle was put within, would
soon relieve it of its stiffness. I got awkwardly upon her. She seized
my standing prick, and placing its knob between the already very moist
lips, told me to push it in as far as it would go. It glided into its
delicious sheath up to the cod piece in a moment.

"Oh, heavens!" I cried, "how nice! Dear, dear, auntie, what shall I do
now, I feel as if I were going to die."

My apparent innocence seemed to add to her pleasure. She threw the
sheet that covered us on one side, and with arms and legs clasped round
my body, begged me to move my bottom up and down, so as to make my
doodle go in and out. I followed her directions, and she seconded me
with rare art, squeezing my instrument with wonderful pressures as I
withdrew and she retired, to meet again the up and down shock with the
most lascivious delight. I felt the hand of the doctor embracing my
testicles and gently pressing them. I became aware that the crisis was
approaching, and shoved home with a cry of rapture, but remembering my
part, I exclaimed--

"Oh, I am dying, dear aunt; oh! oh! stop! stop! I--can't--can't--bear
it." I sank away, but could hear aunt murmuring--

"Dear, darling, delicious boy, I never had such a glorious prick in me,
or a better fuck before. I fear the dear child has fainted from the
excess of pleasure, and the newness of the sensation, but his glorious
prick still throbs deliciously within me--only feel its root, doctor,
how stiff it is."

I felt the doctor grasping it, making it throb violently as he did so.

"The dear boy is as stiff as ever. You will get another fuck out of him
the moment he comes to himself. I am glad of that, for it is delightful
to see you at it, especially with so splendid a prick operating upon
you--it is the greatest treat you have ever given me in that way."

"I don't wonder at that, my dear, for I never met with such a fine
prick in my life before, and little thought my nephew could have had
such a splendid one in his trousers when we first saw him. Oh, I am
lewder than ever, and am spen--spen--spending. Oh!--oh!"

And she poured down another copious hot flow on my enraptured prick. I
let her revel in the ecstasies of her second lascivious discharge until
I found that her libidinous passions were again excited and longing for
more active operations. I pretended not to know where I was, and began
a faltering--

"Oh, where am I? What has happened? I have been in paradise!"

Lifting up my head, I apparently recognised aunt in surprise--

"Oh, dear; how came I here? Oh, remember, auntie, you promised to
relieve my hardness, and it seemed so nice, but I feel it is harder
than ever; you will try and relieve me again, won't you, dear auntie?"

"Certainly, my dear nephew, you must do as you did at first, move in
and out, and I shall second you; and perhaps we shall succeed this time
better than before."

Of course, I was less gauche, and she more energetic. I felt the doctor
insert a moistened finger up my fundament, and move it in unison with
our thrusts. Aunt cried out to me to go on faster and faster, and we
soon came to the grand crisis, dying away together in sobs and sighs of
delighted enjoyment. I again sank on her noble panting bosom, really
overcome with the rapture-giving delights of that most delicious cunt.
On lifting my love-humid eyes to the face of my aunt, she seized my
head in both hands, and drew my lips to her in a long, long kiss of
satisfied lust, and thrust her tongue into my mouth, which I
immediately sucked. She then begged me to give her mine. After
tongueing together for a minute or two she asked if my doodle was in
less pain, and if its hardness was reduced.

"A little, dear auntie, but I feel it is getting hard again--you must
try once more, if you please--oh! it is so nice!"

And my prick throbbed up and stiffened to prove the truth of my words.
But the doctor here interrupted us by saying that he must have his own
stiffness reduced, at the same time presenting his really fine prick at
full stand before our faces.

"You must get up, my dear boy, and your aunt will allay your new
hardness in another way, in which she will be able to relieve both our
hardnesses together."

Reluctantly I rose, withdrawing my reeking prick at more than half
stand. Looking down as I rose on the truly large and magnificent
foaming gash from which I had just withdrawn, I cried--

"Oh, dear aunt, what a wonderful sight it is; I must kiss it for the
efforts it has made to relieve me."

I threw my head down upon it, kissed it, licked its wide open lips all
foaming with fuck as they were, thrusting my tongue in as far as it
would go. This evidently gave aunt great delight. But the doctor drew
me off, told me to lie down on my back, and made aunt straddle over me.
She took hold of my now completely standing prick, bent it back, and
directing it aright, sank upon it until her ample bush of hair lay
crushed on mine. She rose up and down two or three times in a slow
delicious movement, and then bending forward, glued her lips to mine
while I threw my arms round her glorious body.

I could feel the doctor getting up between my legs on his knees, and
then felt his prick was rubbing against the lips of the cunt fully
distended round my large pego, doubtless for the purpose of lubricating
it before thrusting it into aunt's magnificent backside. I felt the
rubbing of his prick against mine through the thin partition, as he
glided slowly up into her entrails. We then began our joint movements,
but aunt beat us both, and spent twice before joining in our final
finish, which was ushered in by loud cries of delight from all three as
the death-like ecstasy seized us, and we sank in that half unconscious
state of supreme bliss. It was some time before any of us spoke a word.
The doctor rose first, and without drawing his prick from the delicious
orifice in which it had been engulphed, showed by the way it hung down
its pendant head, that aunt had at all events allayed its stiffness. He
desired aunt to rise also, but I felt by her throbbing cunt, and the
pressure she put on my prick, as she rose from it, so that it came out
with a loud flop, that she would fain once more have done me the
service of allaying any stiffness that might re-arise. However, it was
much limper than before, although still of a goodly thickness. When she
got on her legs, she stooped forward, kissed it, took it in her mouth,
and most lovingly sucked it, saying how delighted she would be to
relieve me whenever it was troublesome. They begged me to get up and
dress, and we should meet at breakfast. They then withdrew, to complete
their own toilets. I lay for some minutes in the dreamy delight of
thinking over the delicious event that had just taken place, and amused
at the last remark of my aunt, which seemed to infer that she thought I
was innocent of the real meaning of the performances that had just
taken place. I determined to act as if it were so.

We met at breakfast, aunt kissed me most lovingly. I thanked her for
her great kindness in relieving me from pain in so delicious a manner,
and told her I could not help loving her more than I had ever loved any
one before, and said I hoped she would kindly relieve me every morning,
for I always suffered at that time from the painful hardness, though I
should never be sorry for that, as long as she would so kindly allay
it. I put my hands quite in a childish way on each cheek, and held up
my mouth for a kiss, which was given to me in the lewdest way. She
called me her dear boy, and told me that she would always help me as
she had done that morning, as long as she found I was discreet, and
never told how she did so. You may be sure that my promises were most
earnestly reiterated. So we kissed again, and sat down to an excellent
breakfast with sharpened appetites from our early exercise, and did
full justice to the viands set before us. The doctor gave me a book of
history, and desired me to read for a couple of hours, and said that at
luncheon we would talk over the subject of my reading. I studied
attentively for the time prescribed, and then aunt came to ask me to
walk in the grounds with her. Insensibly or not, she led me to the
summer house, and sat down on a low ottoman. I sat down beside her. She
drew me to her, kissed me, and clasped me to her bosom, murmuring terms
of endearment, and pressing me to her glorious bubbles. Of course, my
unruly member fired up at once. To prevent her imagining it was
lasciviousness that prompted me, I said--

"Oh, my dear aunt, I do so want to piddle, my doodle at once gets as
hard as wood if I at all restrain the inclination to do so, just feel
how stiff it has become; will you let me go and piddle?"

"My dear boy, I will go with you, and unbutton your trousers for you."

We went among the trees. Her busy fingers undid my trousers, and helped
to bring forward my lordly cock in its glory. Fortunately, I did want
to piddle, and aunt held it up as I did so, her eyes sparkling with
lust as she handled it, and her face flushed with her excited passions.
She remarked what an astonishing size it was, gently rubbing it up and
down. Of course, it became more rampant than ever. Throwing my arms
round her stooping neck, I asked her if she could not again relieve the
excessive hardness and pain it was in.

"To be sure, my dear boy. Come here again into the summer house, where
we cannot be observed."

We entered. She put a cushion on the floor for my knees, threw herself
on her back, and lifted all her petticoats well over her belly,
exposing her very hairy cunt, and its splendid pinky gash, already
moist from her excitement. I threw myself on my knees, and stooping
down, said--

"I must kiss the dear reliever of my pains."

I kissed and tongued, until my aunt begged me to raise my body, and
come upon her, that she might quickly put me out of pain. I rose, and
slipped my stiff member up to the hilt in her longing cunt almost
taking away her breath by the suddenness and completeness of the
insertion. Her legs and arms were round me in a moment, and at it we
went hammer and tongs, until we quickly spent with cries of delight,
and sank in momentary oblivion, soon to recover our full sensations,
and dash again on passion's furious course, this time aunt pouring down
her hot boiling discharge before me, and again when she felt the
torrent of my sperm shooting up to the top of her womb. Our final
crisis was even more ecstatic than the first time, and we lay longer in
the soft languor of the after-sensations. The excessively voluptuous
nature of her inward pressures soon re-illuminated all my libidinous
desires, and refired my prick with renewed force. We soaked for a short
time, each indulging in the delicious inward throbbings, until our lust
could stand no longer such mere preliminary work, and stimulated anew,
we rushed with freshened passions into the fray. The fiery nature of my
lustful aunt paid down two tributes to Priapus to my one. This time our
sensations were so ecstatic in spending that we really lost all
consciousness, and lay for long locked in the closest embrace. I could
feel that we were both becoming re-excited, but my aunt begged me to
rise, saying that was enough for the present, the stiffness was
allayed, and my weight was too much for her to endure longer. I rose,
but again buried my face in the wide gash of that glorious cunt, and
before rising completely, I licked up the delicious foam, and even
ventured to give, as it were, an accidental lick to her little knob of
a clitoris, for she was not much distinguished in that way; she
shivered with excitement, when I touched it, and even pressed my head
down upon it, when she felt the pleasure pressure.

"My dear boy, what exquisite delight you give me! Continue for a little
to keep moving your tongue on that hard projection."

I did so. Her splendid backside wriggled below in the fullest
enjoyment. She rapidly came to the ecstatic ending, nearly thrusting my
whole face into her vast orbit, and spurting out a very torrent of
sperm, all over my face and neck. She seized me by the shoulders to
draw me up, that she might kiss me. My prick had regained its full
vigour, and could not fail to slip in of itself into that most
lascivious and gaping cunt when it reached the entrance. My aunt
started at such an unexpected result, but was too much gratified to
hesitate for an instant. Throwing legs and arms around me, her supple
loins were in immediate action. I myself was equally in a state of wild
lubricity, so that our course was even more rapid than at first, and we
both spent and sank together in the delicious after-languor as soon as
the ecstatic joy of the first rush of the exquisite discharge was over.
My aunt, who could not but be most highly gratified, still kept up the
appearance of relieving me, she desired me to rise, and said we must
go, as luncheon time was at hand.

"But, my darling nephew, you must yourself endeavour to keep down your
hardness, and not allow it to become stiff so often--you will injure me
with your violence."

"Oh, my darling aunt, you give me relief with such exquisite pleasure
that my doodle seems to harden only for the purpose of your relieving
it--see how it is again bulging out of my trousers," for she had
buttoned it up. She put her hand upon it, and squeezed it, but said,
with a deep sigh--

"Come along, come along, or I do not know what might happen."

She drew me away, but by the manner in which she squeezed my arm, I
could feel she was herself still greatly excited. Her prudence alone
enabled her to resist further indulgence, as she seemed to think I was
still unaware of the real nature of our proceedings. We found the
doctor waiting for us at the luncheon table. He guessed by the flushed
face of my aunt the nature of our late employment, and asked if I had
been again troubled with my unnatural hardness.

"Yes, poor fellow," said my aunt, "it appears that whenever he wants to
piddle, and cannot do so at once, it troubles him in that way, and I
have had some difficulty in allaying it. I succeeded at last, but I
have told my dear nephew that he must endeavour himself to restrain it
in the daytime, as it is not always in my power to relieve him."

"Quite right, my love; my dear Charles, you must endeavour to follow
the wishes of your of aunt."

Of course I promised, and with such a look of innocence that I could
see they exchanged smiles at it. We sat down to luncheon. Afterwards
the doctor, seating himself by my side, began a conversation on the
historical subject I had been studying. Our conversation became really
very interesting. The doctor was a man of great erudition, and of
varied knowledge, and had a manner, special to himself, of making
almost any subject most interesting. Hours flew by, and it was only
when aunt entered about five o'clock, to take a cup of tea, as was her
wont, that we were aware how time had flown. The doctor praised my
knowledge of history, and the pertinency of the questions I had put to
him, in a manner highly flattering to me, and I could see that I had
risen much in his estimation, quite apart from any erotic influences.
He proposed a constitutional walk before dinner, and much interested me
by his instructive conversation during it. Our dinner was most
agreeable. In the drawing-room aunt, a most admirable performer on the
piano, enchanted us with her skill and taste. The doctor challenged me
to a game at chess. He was, of course, far superior to me, but he
praised my style of play, saying I should become a great proficient
with time and practice. We retired, as usual, about half-past ten, the
doctor seeing me to my room, and promising to bring aunt in the morning
to see if I was still troubled with that painful hardness. I thanked
him warmly, but with much simplicity, as if quite unaware of the real
nature of the application of the remedy. He left me to my repose. The
quiet nights of sound sleep made my day efforts pass off without any
exhaustion, and I felt my erotic powers increasing in force.

I slept soundly, and so long that I was only awakened by the caressing
hand of my aunt on my stiff-standing pego. She had gently lifted off
all the coverings, and I lay quite exposed to eye and touch.

"Oh, my darling aunt! how kind of you to come this early to relieve
that troublesome thing."

I held out my arms. She stooped down to kiss me. I clasped her to my
bosom. Our lips met, and our tongues darted fiery lust into our bodies.
She threw herself down by my side, I was onto her in a moment. The
doctor took hold of my pego, and guided it into the delicious orbit of
his wife. Dear aunt begged me to do as I did yesterday, if I wanted
relief. Our action became fast and furious. Her legs and arms wound
round me in loving pressures. Her active backside wriggled in delight.
The doctor had introduced first one finger, and then two, into my
fundament, and added greatly to the fury of my lust, so that I spent in
an agony of pleasure, as quickly as the fiery lust of my aunt produced
her hot and plentiful discharge. I sank on her charming bosom, panting
with the force and fury of our coition, but like all very fast fucking,
my virile member hardly flinched from his first vigour, and a very few
of aunt's exquisitely delicious internal pressures sufficed to bring
him up to the fullest stiffness. We were about to plunge again with
renewed ardour into all love's wildest excitement, but the doctor
insisted upon our first changing places, that he, too, might have his
hardness allayed. Our change of position was instantly accomplished,
and dear aunt, after impaling herself on my upright member, sank on my
bosom and was clasped in my longing arms. The doctor scrambled up
behind her, and lost no time in sheathing himself in her fine and
beautiful bottom-hole, and then we ran a double course of delight, dear
aunt taking the lead as usual, and deluging us with her hot and
delicious discharges before we were ready to pour into her a double
dose of delight, which again made her spend with fury and cries of
rapturous enjoyment, in which we both joined, and then sank in love's
exquisite inanimation. On recovering ourselves the doctor withdrew, but
I was already as stiff as before. Aunt began a most effective and
delicious movement above me, which soon brought on another grand
finale, and we died away in mutual delight. I could feel that the
doctor was gently handling my cods, both during and after our last
combat. When, by our mutual throbbings, he saw that we were about to
become fit to enter on another career, he begged his wife to rise from
off me. But the idea of losing her and her extra pressures made my
prick immediately resume an erect position, so that when she rose from
off it, it was shown in a completely standing state.

"What! again, Charles?" said the doctor. "Your member is sadly unruly.
My dear, you must again try to allay it, but put yourself this time on
your knees, and we shall see if that position be better adapted for the
purpose of relieving this immense object."

He was gently and admiringly handling it all the time. His wife was
quite aware of his object, and, indeed, so was I. Our last bout had
helped to restiffen his prick, and although not yet quite rampant, it
was evident that when my bottom was in full view, and so placed as to
be got at with facility, it would be quite as stiff as necessary. When
his wife had knelt down, and by lowering her head had exposed all the
wondrous grandeur of the most superb backside that ever met my eyes, my
prick bounded with joy. The doctor still grasping it, and feeling it
throb so wildly, saw that his game was sure. He pointed out all the
beauty of aunt's second orbit of love, and told me it was in that he
had allayed his own hardness, and as the other orifice had not
succeeded in quieting me, he recommended my entering within the narrow
path of ecstasy. I professed no surprise, but seemed to take it quite
as a matter of course in the simplest innocence of manner. Uncle
continued to handle my tool as I mounted on my knees behind aunt.
Guiding the almost bursting weapon into the delicious cunt in the first
place, to be lubricated there, and then telling me to withdraw it, he
directed it to the smaller orifice, and desired me to push gently and
smoothly in. It glided in slowly up to the meeting of my belly against
the enormous buttocks of that sublime backside. There I paused for a
minute or two within the throbbing sheath. Aunt had pushed her bottom
well out, and by the action of apparently voiding, had facilitated the
entrance. She winced once or twice, but on the whole, as she told me
afterwards, took in my enormous tool with less difficulty than she
expected. After a few slow movements, during with I caressed and
devoured with admiration the glorious orbs beneath my dearest gaze,
uncle desired me to lean forward and embrace my aunt's splendid bosom.
As soon as I did this, and began slowly to thrust in and out of the
delicious sheath in which I was so rapturously engulphed, I felt
uncle's hands wandering over my buttocks, followed by the introduction
of two fingers into my anus. My throbbings on them showed how much he
pleased me. He asked if it added to the pleasure I was enjoying.

"Oh, yes, dear uncle, immensely."

"Then," said he, "as I, too, am suffering from hardness, I shall try to
allay it in your bottom, as you are doing in my wife's; don't be
afraid, if I hurt you I shall stop."

"Do just as you like, dear uncle, both you and aunt are so kind as to
do all you can to relieve my pain, and I should be very ungrateful if I
did not do all in my power to relieve you."

"You are a darling boy, and I shall love you dearly."

He knelt behind me, and spitting on his cock, presented it at my
bum-hole, and pressing gently forward, soon sheathed it to the utmost
depth. He did not hurt me at all, as I was too much used to be dildoed
there to have felt any difficulty of approach, but I deemed it politic
to beg him to be gentle from time to time, as if it were a virgin vale
he was entering. He fancied as much, and that was just as good. When
once he was fully within, after a few throbs, which were felt most
deliciously on his delighted prick, we proceeded to more active work.
Aunt, in the meantime, by more pressure on my prick, and by frigging
her own clitoris, which I was quite aware she was doing, had spent
profusely; and, as the case with all the mucous membranes of the body
which sympathise with the cunt's discharge, her bottom-hole became
quite moist and deliciously heated. The doctor and I then went at it
with fiery force, and soon gave down nature's tribute, and mutually
poured a flood of sperm up the entrails we were respectively
belabouring.

We lay for some time after in all the luxury of soaking in the
delicious apertures. I fell to nothing, and reluctantly withdrew. I had
again become rampant, and keeping myself more erect, with a hand on
either immense hip, I devoured with greedy eyes all the glories beneath
my gaze. Fired by such a truly magnificent sight as these huge buttocks
were, when in an entire state of wriggle, I again spent with cries of
agonised delight, and in all the ecstasy of fully satiated lust, sank
almost insensible on the broad and beautiful back of my aunt, who
herself had spent several times, squealing like a rabbit, and
eventually falling flat on her belly overcome with exhausted lust,
drawing me with her still held a willing prisoner in her glorious and
exquisite bottom-hole. We lay entranced for some time, until the
doctor, who, during our last bout, had purified himself, told us we
must now get up. With difficulty I tore myself from out of that
delicious sheath, and rose with my cock at last pendant. The doctor
congratulated me on the success of the last move. His wife lay still
panting with all the delight of satisfied desire, and we had to help
her up. She threw herself into my arms, and hugged me close to her
heaving bosom, kissed me tenderly, and hoped she had relieved me of all
pain. I was her own darling boy, and she would always be truly happy in
relieving me of that inconvenience whenever it troubled me. I was
internally amused at their continuing to keep up this idea, but I
humoured them, and appeared the most innocent simpleton,
notwithstanding all that had occurred. The day passed much as the
previous one. After two hours' reading, aunt again proposed a walk,
which, of course, ended at the summer house, where again a pressure of
water brought on the painful hardness, which aunt succeeded in allaying
after four most exquisite bouts of love, varied by a thoroughly good
double gamahuche between the last two acts. Aunt must have spent at
least ten times, and appeared thoroughly contented, but continued to
attribute it to her gratification at having relieved me of my painful
hardness. Again I passed hours in instructive conversation with my
learned uncle and after a similar evening to the last, retired at our
usual hour.

Next morning I was awakened by uncle alone, who told me that my aunt
was somewhat poorly, and could not come.

"I am sorry it is so, for this little fellow is as hard as usual."

"Oh, I am so sorry dear aunt is poorly, both on her account and my own.
What shall I do, dear uncle? It is so hard and painful."

"Well, my dear boy, I must try to allay it myself. I love you too
dearly to leave you in this state. I am not so good at allaying this
painful attack as your aunt, but as you know you were successfully
relieved in her bottom, and I in yours, yesterday, we shall try to-day
if I can accommodate this huge fellow, of which I have some doubts.
Take off your night-shirt as I do mine, it will be more commodious."

In an instant we were both stark naked. We threw ourselves into one
another's arms and lovingly kissed each other. Our tongues met in a
delicious sucking--our hands took each a prick, and we had a most
exciting and loving embrace. The doctor then took my prick in his
mouth, sucked it a little, and well lubricated it with his saliva,
spitting on the lower part of the shaft and rubbing it round with his
finger. He then knelt, and presenting a really beautifully rounded
bottom of the fairest hue, he pushed it out, showing a light brown
corrugated bum-hole, most tempting to look at. He desired me to wet it
with my saliva. I stooped and applied my mouth and tongue to the
appetising morsel, and thrust my tongue in as far as it would go--to
his evident delight, leaving it well moistened. I then brought my prick
to the entrance; he shoved his backside well out, and acted as if he
desired to void himself. A firm but slow pressure quickly engulphed the
knob. The doctor desired me to rest a moment, and drop some spittle on
the shaft. Again it was firmly pushed forward, and gradually it won its
way up, the belly against the buttocks, without much flinching on the
doctor's part. After resting a while, he desired me to bend forward and
feel his cock while I should move backwards and forwards in the sheath
until I was relieved. I had a most delicious fuck. The doctor's
bottom-hole was quite hot internally. His pressures with the sphincter
were exquisitely delicious, and he had acquired the charming side
wriggle so exquisite in quim fucking. Of course this was an old letch
of his, which his position as schoolmaster had given him so many
opportunities of indulging in, and the still greater pleasure of
initiating others in it. At this very moment he was delighted with his
delusion about me in that respect. Of course I never undeceived him,
and he had all the extra delight of the idea. My younger and hotter
passions had made me spend before he could; so after indulging me in a
delicious soak after the ecstasy of the discharge, he drew my attention
to the rigidity of his own member, which, he said, I must now allow him
to allay in turn.

"Of course, my dear uncle, I am too sensible of your great kindness in
relieving me to hesitate about giving you the same relief."

I now withdrew. He rose for a mutual loving embrace, and then I
stooped, and taking his fine milk-white prick with its lovely vermilion
knob into my mouth, most deliciously sucked it, making my tongue tickle
the entrance to the urethra, to his infinite delight. He murmured out
soft terms of endearment; then getting exceedingly lewd, he begged me
to kneel down as he had done. He then kissed and gamahuched my
bottom-hole, making my prick stand and throb again with delight. Then
spitting on his prick he quickly sheathed it in my glowing backside.
After pausing to enjoy the exquisite pleasure of complete insertion, he
stooped, and passing a hand round my belly laid hold of my
stiff-standing prick with one hand, while he gently pressed the
ballocks with the other. We then proceeded to active measures. He soon
made me spend, which I did with loud cries of delight, giving him the
most exquisite pleasure by the pressures the act of spending made me
exercise on his pleased prick. He soon resumed his thrusts, and
eventually we both spent together in the most ecstatic joy. I sank
forward on the bed, dragging the doctor with me still imbedded in the
rapture-giving aperture of my backside. We lay long in all the
enchantment of delight. At last he withdrew completely reduced, but was
surprised to see me still in a rampant state. When I got up he took my
prick in his hand, praised its noble proportions, and again stooping,
took it in his mouth, frigging the lower shaft with one hand; he then
introduced two fingers into my bottom-hole, continued his suction and
movement on my prick in unison with the working of his fingers up my
bum-hole, and in this manner quickly produced a delicious discharge in
his mouth. I had placed my hands mechanically on his head, and I nearly
choked him as I thrust my prick halfway down his throat as I spent. He
greedily swallowed every drop, and then rising, embraced me lovingly,
telling me I had given him the greatest treat in the world, and he
loved me dearly. After this he invited me into his dressing-room, and
we both entered the bath together and mutually laved each other. Then
dressing we joined aunt at breakfast. She had not the least air _d'une
malade_, but with a sly smile hoped the doctor had proved as efficient
as herself.

"Oh, yes, my dear aunt, and I am so much obliged to both of you for
your solicitude to relieve the pain I suffer in the morning, but it
seems to me that it more frequently and more severely attacks me than
ever. I only hope I shall not tire out your kindness by such frequent
appeals to your aid."

"Oh, my darling nephew, do not imagine anything of the sort. We are but
too happy to be of any service to you."

This was accompanied with a knowing smile cast at each other, caused by
my apparent uncommon simplicity, but which they were evidently glad to
see. We sat down and enjoyed a capital breakfast.

The day passed quite as the two preceding ones. Aunt asked me to walk
with her, and as before ended by leading me to the summer house, where,
after relieving my distress symptoms, as she called them, three times,
and finding that the relief was still inefficacious, she proposed to
try if by adopting my uncle's position she could not be more
successful. So kneeling on the low ottoman, and throwing her clothes
over her back, she exposed all the glories of that most splendid
backside, and dazzled my sight with its huge magnificence and
ivory-like surface, perfectly milk-white, the pureness of which was
equally perceptible through the rich light curly hair that spread
bush-like between her legs, and wandering beautifully upwards between
the cheeks of the enormous orbs, stole round the charming corrugated
aperture that I was about to penetrate, the rosy circle of which
appeared all too small to admit my very large virile member. I threw
myself on my knees, and first licking out the wide open lips of her
wonderously fine cunt, and taking care to pay my respects to the small
knob of her indurated clitoris, I transferred all my attention to the
smaller and most charming orifice. After kissing it most lovingly, I
thrust my tongue in as far as it would go, and rolled it about to her
infinite delight, while with my left hand below I kept pressing and
frigging at her excited clitoris. She wriggled her glorious backside in
all the agonies of the delicious excitement until she spent most
profusely, actually hurting my tongue with the tightness of the squeeze
her sphincter muscle gave as she poured down her plentiful discharge
over my chin and neck. In her grand excitement, and wild with the fury
of her lust, she cried out--

"Oh! fuck me, my darling, and shove your glorious prick into my
bottom-hole. Oh! fuck--fuck--fuck me directly!"

Inwardly delighted at this natural outbreak of her passions, naming
matters by their more appropriate terms, I replied by acts, without any
words at the moment. It may well be imagined I was myself in the most
rampant fury of desire. So bringing my raging prick up to her
magnificently large cunt, all foaming as it was with her recent
discharge, I plunged with a furious bound up to the codpiece at once.
She met my forward lunge with a backward push and a cry of delighted
satisfaction. I moved a few times in and out, so that my prick was
white with the foam of her delicious cunt. Then suddenly withdrawing, I
presented it at the entrance of the more secret temple of Venus, and
more gently pushed it home, she helping me with outthrust buttocks and
outward straining of the entrance, so that I most charmingly glided
slowly into the glowing furnace that was awaiting with such lascivious
desire to engulph and devour my longed-for prick. For, as I have before
observed, my dear aunt was gluttonous of a bottom-fuck, after being so
fucked in cunt as I had already served her. It was so deliriously tight
and hot that I lay in the exquisite rapture of complete insertion for
some minutes. I had seen my aunt's arm move in a manner to convince me
she was frigging her own clitoris, in fact, the movement of her hand
frigging herself was felt by my codpiece. I let her continue, until
finding by the involuntary wriggling of her bottom that she was about
again to spend, I aided her with my prick, and had hardly made many
moves before she poured down another tribute of lust, with a squeal of
delight, and with such pressure on my prick as nearly drove him at once
to a similar discharge. I did my best, and succeeded in not following
suit. My aunt was insatiable, and I was glad to let her spend as often
as possible, and I so managed matters that she spent again before
joining me in the final crisis, which seized us together, and we died
away in joyous cries of thoroughly, though but momentarily, satisfied
desire. I sank on that magnificent back, as the languor that follows
the ecstatic moment overtook me, but it was only for a short time. The
exquisite internal pressures that my amorous and glorious aunt was
exercising on my delighted prick were too exciting not to rapidly
produce a reaction; nonetheless rapidly that it was in such a delicious
retreat as the pleasure-giving aperture of that gloriously exciting
backside. I was lying down on her broad back, so passing one hand round
to her large but firm bubby, I took its nipple between my fingers. The
other hand sought the knob of her still stiff clitoris. I excited both
while making a very gentle move with my hardly fully standing prick. I
felt at once how this gratified her, indeed, she often afterwards
assured me that such frigging, with the movement of the softened prick
gently working within her, was most exciting, and almost better than
when it was in full force. I soon made her spend again. Another of her
delights was to have a stiff prick shove away into her the instant
after she had spent, when she herself was at the moment incapable of
action on her part. She in after-days proved that her greatest pleasure
was to have a fresh-standing prick near, to take the place of one that
had made her spend, and had spent itself, and have it thrust into her
with all the vigour and lust the sight of the previous fucking had
inspired and fired it with. At this moment, as I had not spent, it was
the exact counterpart her libidinous imagination could have desired. I
fucked and frigged on until we both gave down in cries of joy our
united tribute to Venus. We both sank this time down on the couch in
utter forgetfulness of all but the ecstatic bliss with which we were
overcome. We long lay soaking in all the delightful sensations my
adorable aunt's convulsive clutchings of my prick with her delicious
close pressures excited. At last she begged me to withdraw, although
she could feel me now re-stiffening under the delights of that
exquisite interior. I would fain have recommenced.

"You must not, my dear boy, it is more than nature can support, and I
must consider your youth; you have delighted me even beyond previous
delights--rise then my love, and let me embrace, thank, and love you as
I shall always do."

I rose, and we threw ourselves into each other's arms, lovingly kissing
and tongueing each other. Aunt then buttoned me up, first kissing and
taking a mouthful of my prick for a moment between her lips, and then
putting him away, calling it "my pretty doodle." I seized the
expression, and said--

"Dear aunt, you called it my prick just now, and begged me to fuck you,
and to shove it well into your cunt. Are these the real names for my
doodle and your Fanny, and what does "fuck" mean, my darling aunt? Do
tell me, dear auntie? and teach me the language I ought to use when you
are so kindly relieving me of the pains of my now so frequent hardness.
I don't know whether you have observed it, dear auntie, but I never
enter this summer house with you, but it becomes painfully hard at
once; to be sure you give me such exquisite pleasure in relieving me
that I could wish to have constant hardnesses as long as you were near
to calm them. Is this natural, dear aunt, or a disease? Pray tell me,
and teach me all the endearing terms you so lavish upon me while I am
reducing my hardnesses."

My apparent simplicity evidently pleased her. She probably thought,
too, that as I must sooner or later really thoroughly understand the
nature of our intercourse, it would be much better she should, as it
were, make a confidant of me, and attach me more securely to herself.
She begged me to be seated and she fully explained everything to me. Of
course I was even better acquainted than herself with all she
communicated, but I confirmed the idea she evidently entertained of her
being my first instructress by various naive remarks on all she was
telling me. Of course I proved an apt scholar, and by my close-put
questions brought out all her own knowledge, and left nothing for me to
learn. At the end, I said--

"Do all women have such a delightful sheath--cunt I mean--between
their legs as you have, dear aunt?"

"Yes, my darling; but you must never stray to others; you will find
none so fond of you, or I may add, without vanity, so capable of
satisfying this dear fellow; but come, I see it will be dangerous to
allow him to stay here longer."

She rose, but I quickly unbuttoned and produced my prick in an almost
grander state than ever. I begged of her to let me have one more "fuck"
now that I knew what it all really meant. I put it into her hand. Her
own previous descriptive lesson had aroused her lasciviousness. She
fondly grasped it, and stooping down, kissed it, saying she could not
resist its eloquent look. Throwing herself back on the couch, with her
clothes up, her feet on the edge, and her legs apart, her glorious cunt
lay open in its moist magnificence. I threw myself on my knees and
gamahuched her until she spent: and now, knowing her greatest letch, I
instantly brought my bursting prick up to her foaming cunt, plunged in
and began a furious movement, accompanying it with all the most
endearing bawdy phrases she had just, as she thought, taught me.

"Oh, my most gloriously cunted aunt, do I fuck you? Wriggle your arse
faster--that's it! Do you feel my prick up to the hilt in your
delicious cunt? Oh! what pleasure you do give me!"

She replied as broadly. Passing her hand down she pressed my cods, and
asked if thus squeezing my ballocks added to my pleasure.

"Oh, yes, my love, your cunt, your arse, your bubbles, are all
delicious. Oh, I never before knew there could be such additional
pleasure to our fucking as using these endearing words produce."

We were both so excited by the bawdy terms we so profusely used that we
went off in the utmost excess of ecstasy, and died away thoroughly
satiated with our libidinous and most lasciviously delicious fuck. It
was time to finish. So sliding off her, I again buried my face in her
delicious gaping and foaming cunt, my mouth, lips, nose, and cheeks
were covered with sperm; she drew me to her lips and licked it all off.
Then repairing our disordered dress we returned to the house, and found
the doctor impatiently awaiting us. Our flushed and excited faces at
once showed that we had been indulging in the greatest excess. He joked
aunt upon her skill in allaying such frequent attacks as I now appeared
subject to.

Aunt informed him that she had inadvertently in her lust made use of
expressions which had betrayed so much to me that she had found it
necessary to leave me nothing more to learn, and I was now fully aware
of the true nature of our connection; after luncheon he himself might
further enlighten me, for she was certain that complete confidence
would be the best policy to pursue; it must come about, sooner or
later, and it was far better it should come from him than that I should
learn it elsewhere. He said she was quite right, and that he would
further instruct me after luncheon, so we set to work on the viands
before us, to which I did ample justice.

I was thus, as they supposed, newly initiated in the mysteries of the
coition of the sexes. I shall reserve further details of our more
intimate and expansive experiences for the third volume of this true
Romance of Lust, and still of Early Experiences.



END OF VOLUME II.



VOLUME III.



CONTENTS



Aunt Brownlow--Harry Dale--Mrs. Dale and Ellen--Mrs. D.--Ellen--Mrs.
D., Dr. Brownlow, and Harry--



After the luncheon, which closed the last volume, a churchwarden
occupied uncle for about an hour. When he had left off, uncle proposed
a walk in the garden. I could see at once what this was meant to lead
to, as he almost immediately turned in the direction of the summer
house. When we got there he sat down on the couch, and begged me to sit
beside him. He opened the subject at once by saying--

"My dear Charlie, I am very much pleased that your aunt has opened your
eyes to the real nature of our actions with you, which your simple
innocence had imagined to be a mere kindly relief to the overgorged
vessels of your virile member. Accident might have made you acquainted
with this through some less interested channel, and you might have
innocently betrayed your future position. I believe you to possess a
large fund of good sense and discretion, and the advice I shall give
you as to the conduct to pursue in future will not only be received
with confidence as meant for your future good, but listened to
attentively and acted upon. The world, my dear boy, and by that I mean
Society in general, condemns the practices we have lately been
indulging in with you. Their narrow prejudices ignore the fact that
nature alone prompts to these delightful acts, and that the great God
of nature gifted us with the powers necessary for their performance.
But, as the world has chosen to brand them with its censure, men of
prudence, like myself, whilst apparently conforming outwardly to such
stupid prejudices, know how in secret to fully enjoy them. I am blessed
in your darling aunt with a wife who fully understands and humours my
desires. She is rarely splendid in the glorious beauties of her body,
and in temperament hot as the most erotic of our sex could desire. Even
in your ignorance you must have felt the wonderful power of conferring
carnal ecstatic pleasure she possesses, and have heard how, in the
energy of her passion, she allowed her lust to betray her into the use
of grossly bawdy terms, but which, as they have enlightened you when
best prepared to receive such knowledge, is rather fortunate than
otherwise. I speak thus frankly to you, my dear boy, because I have
found you of a rare facility in giving and receiving erotic pleasures,
and of a temperament worthy of the descent from the same stock as your
aunt. You are worthy of each other, and formed to enjoy to the utmost
each other's carnal delights, and I bless my happy star that has
brought you both under my own roof. Henceforth there must be no secrets
between us. It was at my earnest wish that your aunt relieved you; and,
of course I had my own object in view. In the first place I require
some extra excitement to be able myself to indulge in these delightful
combats in love's domain. You and your aunt's copulations were to me
more exciting than you can imagine. You will have observed, too, what
is the real quarter to which, when excited, I pay my devoirs. Glorious
as is the backside of your incomparable aunt, your young charms, virgin
in that respect, excited me still more. I began by gentle touches, and
then tried the insertion of my finger, when I saw you were far too busy
operating within the orbit of your lustful and lusty aunt to observe or
even feel what I was doing. I found a facility about your bottom as
perfect for enjoyment as your truly magnificent prick or cock was
fitted for operating in its way. It was then I suggested to your aunt
to mount upon you, and afterwards made you aware that your aunt
possessed another aperture which could equally well allay what you then
looked upon as a source of pain. My object was to lead you to the same
point. Your innocent docility lent itself with easy simplicity to all
my desires. I saw that you entered readily into your aunt's glorious
bum-hole, and allowed me to work with two fingers in your own. Finding
that it rather gave you pleasure than otherwise, I proposed to abate my
own stiffness in your bottom. Your affectionate docility enabled me to
obtain unfailing ecstasy. Your after-fucking of me, while I was in my
wife's bottom, conferred the utmost erotic bliss upon me, as you have
experienced when operating and being operated upon. These--these are
the moments of a felicity your stupid prejudiced worldlings know
nothing of; and these are the pleasures which, now that we have
initiated you into all their secret mysteries, we will enjoy to the
utmost. To the true votaries of these love orgies grossness of language
is a stimulant to passion.
Fuck-frig--bugger--cunt--prick--ballocks--bubbles--arse-hole--are all
sacred words only to be pronounced when in the exercise of love's
mysteries. At all other times a guarded decency of word, act, and
gesture is imperative, as enhancing the delight of an unbridled
vocabulary in the voluptuary of raging lust. I shall from time to time
inculcate sage precepts on this point--enough for the present. Let us
now indulge in mutual embraces."

So ending, he took me in his arms and glued his lips to mine. Our
tongues met. Both our hands wandered, his on my prick, which
immediately responded to the touch, my hand was placed on his prick,
but which was only at half-cock. I rapidly unbuttoned, and brought it
forth, then stooping I took it in my mouth, and sucked it and fingered
the root with my hand. Then passing my other hand below, I sought to
penetrate with my finger into the interior of his fundament. He rose to
a standing position to enable me to enter his anus more easily. His
prick quickly standing fiercely showed how much I excited him. I ceased
not until he was in an agony of pleasure--forcing my head down on his
prick until it entered almost completely into my mouth, and shooting
his sperm right down my throat. I continued to suck and frig him until
I produced somewhat of a restiffening of his prick. He begged me to
rise, that he might take mine in his mouth, desiring me at the same
time to take off my trousers and lie down on the couch. I did so. He
knelt at my side, and first handling and examining it with loudly
expressed admiration of my noble weapon, he took its head in his mouth,
and then with his hand on its lower shaft, and finger up my fundament,
brought on a similar crisis as that I had produced on himself. He just
as greedily swallowed all. I had allowed my hand to fall down by the
side of the couch, where it encountered his prick, which had resumed
its pristine vigour.

"Come my dear uncle," said I, "and let us put it into its favourite
corner."

I rose, and kneeling, turned my backside full in his face. He stooped,
caressed, kissed, and tongued the rosy orifice. With the plentiful
saliva with which the operation of sucking my prick had filled his
mouth, he moistened my bum-hole and his own prick, and then easily
glided up to the hilt within my delighted backside. Resting for a while
in all the ecstasies of insertion, which I heightened by my internal
pressures, he seized my prick which had stood again at once at the
pleasing sensation occasioned by the introduction of his prick in my
bottom. Thus frigging my prick and fucking my arse, with occasional
pauses to lengthen out our pleasures, he at last brought matters to a
most exquisite termination, and died away in cries of joy as we poured
forth a mutual torrent of sperm. Uncle continued soaking in all the
blissful after-sensations, which I did everything in my power to
enhance by the delight-giving pressures of my sphincter muscle. When he
withdrew and rose to his legs, he helped me up, and drew me to his
bosom, and we had a long kiss of gratified desire, tongueing each other
the while, and handling our ballocks with mutual gratification. My
uncle was profuse in his praises of my docility and aptitude, declaring
that his pederastic enjoyment of my person excelled all he had ever
experienced in his long practice of the habit, and my delicious
sideways wriggle was superior to the very fine bum-fucking his adorable
wife had the art of giving him: then there was the further excitement
of handling the very finest prick he had ever met with.

"It is no flattery to you, my dear Charles," he said, "but mere justice
to its superb dimensions and admirable power."

Here he stopped, and sucked anew its reeking head, getting a few more
drops out. We then purified ourselves--a basin with water was kept in a
small cupboard purposely for such occasion, for I afterwards learned
the place had been the scene of innumerable contests of the same kind
with aunt and other boys. Having readjusted our disordered habiliments,
we left the grounds, and took a long quiet walk in the fields; the good
doctor inculcating admirable advice to me, whom he considered an
innocent tyro in love's ways. Nevertheless, all he taught me only
strengthened my high opinion of the wisdom of dear Mrs. Benson, and the
adorable Frankland, whole opinion of what was likely to happen to me at
the rectory had been so quickly realised. We returned in time to dress
for dinner. The evening passed as the previous ones. I was conducted to
my room, and left alone to recruit my forces by a quiet night's rest. I
may here incidentally mention that it was a rule of uncle and aunt,
very rarely departed from, to send their favourites to their lonely
couches as a means of restoring their powers, and reinvigorating them
for daylight encounters--both the dear creatures loving to have the
fullest daylight on all the charms of their participants in pleasure,
at the same time yielding an equally undisguised inspection of their
own. This was their principle reason, but they also considered it
advisable as a restorative, and a useful precaution not to overstrain
the energies of the youths they both so much enjoyed. My late
experiences at home had already taught me the advantage and utility of
a quiet night's rest after frequent contests in the fields of Venus and
Juno.

I slept on this occasion with a deep and continuous slumber, until I
was awakened by my uncle, who came to summon me to the arms of his
wife, who, in the splendour of her full-blown charms awaited me in her
own bed, naked as the day she was born. Her arms outstretched, she
invited me to the full enjoyment of her glorious person. The doctor
drew my night-shirt over my head, and in a moment I was locked in the
close embrace of that superb creature. We were both too hot to wait for
further preliminaries, but went at it in furious haste, and rapidly
paid our first tribute to the god of love. The doctor had acted
postillion to both of us, with a finger up each anus. The exquisite
pressures of my aunt's cunt reinvigorated me almost without a pause,
and we proceeded at once to run a second course. Uncle got three
fingers into her divine bottom-hole, as her legs were thrown over my
waist, and her immense buttocks well thrown up enabled him to have full
play between the cheeks of her backside. This double operation made the
dear lascivious creature spend again in a very few movements, and
giving her hardly time to finish her discharge, I fucked on with double
force, and with prick as hard as wood, as fast I could work. This
furious onset, which was the most exciting thing she knew of, rapidly
caused a third discharge. To prevent my own prick from spending too
quickly, I held somewhat back; then again we went at it fast and
furious, and the dear lustful creature, with cries of joy, spent again
with me, and fainted from excess of pleasure; but her glorious cunt
continued to throb on my delighted prick, as if it would nip it off by
the roots. I never met with so lusciously large a cunt, or one with a
greater power of pressure. She could quite hold even an exhausted prick
a complete prisoner in these most delicious and velvety folds. Great as
was the power of Miss Frankland's cunt in that way, aunt beat her. I
may here mention an occurrence that took place some time after this
period. It was during a rare opportunity from an accidental absence of
the doctor, when I was sleeping with my gloriously beautiful aunt. I
had fucked her to her heart's content before we slept, and again on
waking, in full daylight, after which we rose to relieve our natural
wants. I laid myself down on the floor, that I might completely see my
dear aunt piddle from her splendid cunt. It was a glorious sight, which
instantly fired my passions and was at once followed by a fuck on the
floor, my aunt's enormous backside being quite cushion enough, and we
enjoyed the novelty of the thing amazingly. She was loud in her praises
of my indefatigable prick, which, with its vigour and superb
dimensions, was beyond all she had ever seen or felt, and just fitted
her large and luscious cunt, which had never before been so well
filled. This remark reminded me of a desire I had long had to have a
thorough investigation of that immense and splendid object. I expressed
a wish to that effect.

"My darling boy, anything you like, you could not have a better
opportunity, my legs point to the window, so you have the fullest
sight--look, feel, frig, fuck, or bugger, all is at your free
disposition--only give me a pillow from the bed, as the floor is too
hard for me to continue so long as you are likely to be."

I jumped up and gave her two pillows. Then laying her limbs wide open,
with knees bent, the magnificence of that luscious cunt lay in all its
grandeur before me. I have before described what a large, but
splendidly proportioned woman she was--small feet, and clear-run
ankles, large, but admirably turned calves, very small knees, above
which rose the very finest and fleshiest of thighs, worthy supporters
of what I have already described as the largest and finest backside my
eyes ever lighted on. Immense hips, and wonderfully and naturally small
waist, above which were her superb, large, fine, and firm bubbles that
stood out when naked, as hard and firm as those of the youngest of
women; a charming neck, and well-posed head with most pleasing and
beautiful features crowned the whole. Her arms were superb, and equal
in proportion to her other grand and splendid limbs. The flesh was of
the most delicious creamy white, without a spot or a blemish. The hair
of the head, plentiful in the extreme, and so long and thick that when
undone it fell all around her and below her superb buttocks, so that
she could shake it out all round, and completely hide her nakedness.
Often and often has she allowed me to pose her in every way, and shake
it out all over her, and well she might, for no matter how often I
might have fucked her previously, it was sure to produce at least three
more encounters, one of which was always in her backside, a most
favourite way with her and which she declared was by far the most
pleasurable provided the other aperture had been previously well
fucked. With such a taste, of course, her greatest pleasure was to have
two pricks in her at once, the _ne plus ultra_ of erotic satisfaction.
To return to the inspection I was about to describe, which was really
the first at my full disposition, for although I had often gamahuched,
felt and seen the beautiful object, it was when my passions were
excited, and when the gratification of lust alone prompted me, a state
of mind opposed to close observation of natural beauties. Now, repeated
tributes to the god of lust had cooled my ardour for the moment, and
left me to the perfect enjoyment of the sight before me, with the
temper to inspect its full-blown beauties in the minutest way. I have
said before that my aunt had one of the broadest, most prominent, and
most beautiful mounts of Venus that I ever saw. It was thickly covered
with beautiful silky fair curls, which did not hinder you from seeing
her exquisite skin below. The sweep round, to pass between her thighs,
was bold and graceful. In the middle was a well defined semi-circular
depression, from whence the large, thick and beautifully pouting lips
of her cunt commenced, which in her present position lay partially
open. You could just see where the clitoris lay snug. I have already
observed that this was not largely developed, nor were the inner labia
of her cunt at all projecting, indeed, they were not visible, unless
her legs, with bent knees, were stretched apart, as at present. On each
side of these luscious pouting lips, and the long immense pinky gash,
was a triangle of considerable space, such, in fact, as is only to be
seen in a woman of the splendidly large proportions of my aunt; this
was covered as much as her mount with fair silky curls, which ran down
to her beautiful corrugated and rosy bottom-hole. Nothing could be
finer or more beautiful than the sight, as she thus lay fully exposing
every part in the broadest daylight. After handling and admiring all, I
laid the lips well back and apart, and there they kept open. Nothing
could be more charming than the interior of that most enchanting cunt,
of an exquisite salmon-pink in colour, nothing was out of order. The
clitoris, which bulged out in excitement from my touches of all the
parts around, lay first in the upper partition of the pouting lips;
then became below, slightly open, a charming entrance to the urethra,
larger than usual, to allow the mighty rush of waters to pour from it
when piddling; below this was the opening of the vagina, which I parted
with my fingers, and could see even to the corrugated sides of that
exquisite pleasure-giving sheath; then followed some sinuosity of pinky
flesh, whose duty it was to stretch to allow the largest prick to
penetrate. Half-an-inch beyond was the rosy orifice of her bottom. Such
was the exquisite scene before my delighted eyes. I proceeded with my
internal examination. Thrusting in three fingers of each hand, I forced
open by literal pressure the lips, until I could see to a depth of four
or five inches. It was a most beautiful sight. The sheath appeared to
have ribs running round it about half-an-inch apart, and I could see
they were the means of causing the exquisite pressures her cunt could
so ecstatically exercise. Indeed, excited by my _attouchements_, I
could see them contracting and relaxing. It was, doubtless, these ribs
that seemed to exercise a sort of peristaltic motion on the prick, when
reposing at full stand in that glorious cunt. I was able so widely to
open this splendid vagina that I thought I would try to get my hand
altogether in. Projecting my fingers forward, with the first and fourth
drawn under the middle ones and the thumb between, I pushed them
forward, and as the whole cunt was reeking with my last discharge, and
was well lubricated, I glided on; there was a little difficulty at the
knuckles, but I exerted a slight, gentle pressure, and in all went.
Aunt winced a little, and asked what I was doing. I told her.

"It is all in, my darling?"

"Yes, Auntie."

She closed upon it, and squeezed it quite hard.

"Oh, how nice!" she exclaimed, "push it further in."

I advanced, and could feel the end of her womb, which appeared like
three points to fingers and the thumb drawn together, and looked at
endways is something like what it felt--of course, without the nails.
Aunt asked me if I could double my fist where it was. I had no
difficulty, as the part yielded to the greater bulk. Aunt cried out--

"My darling boy, that is delicious; push it further in."

I did so, and began working within her, backwards and forwards. She
wriggled her splendid backside in ecstasy, and before I had made a
dozen movements, poured down upon my hand and arm a torrent of almost
boiling liquid, and went off with a cry of enjoyment. Her arms and legs
relaxed, and she lay quite still in the utmost after-enjoyment, but
with a pressure on my arm and fist quite wonderful. Knowing how she
liked the movement to be continued at such a moment, I worked in and
out slowly. She soon recovered, and again seconded my movements, and
again went off in all the fury of lust, accompanied with shouts of
excitement, urging faster movements, and again went off in all the fury
of her most libidinous nature, and spent most profusely. All this had
now brought me into as furious a state as herself. I wanted to withdraw
and substitute my prick, not only from the state of excitement I was
in, but also to experience the effects of such a well-stretched cunt
upon my lesser-sized weapon. But so tight did my aunt hold my
imprisoned hand that I could not withdraw. I begged her to let it go,
as I wanted to fuck her instantly, but she prayed me to give her one
more of such exquisite manoeuvres, it was a joy beyond anything she had
ever before experienced, so she begged her darling boy to join. On I
went as she desired, and a more exciting picture of furious lust never
met my sight. I helped her final discharge by thrusting two fingers in
her bum-hole. Never shall I forget the grip she gave my arm and fingers
when she spent. It was positively painful, and showed the enormous
force of passionate lust. She went off in such a fury of excitement
that I thought she had fainted outright. But her pressures continued
all the time. It was long before she recovered her senses, and my arm
was aching, and my prick bursting. At last she exclaimed--

"Oh! where am I? I have been in paradise."

"Dear aunt," I cried, "do let me out. I am bursting to fuck you, and I
can't get my arm out, if you don't relax your grip of my wrist."

"I can't help it, my dear boy, it is involuntary, put your other hand
on my mount, and pull steadily, but not with a jerk."

I did so, and really it required considerable force to withdraw it,
notwithstanding I had previously unclenched my hand. I jumped
immediately upon her, and at one bound plunged into that vast cavity,
up to the cods. It immediately closed upon me, and tight as she usually
held me, she really appeared to do so this time tighter than ever, so
wonderfully gifted was that longest, highest, and most luscious cunt I
ever fucked. You may easily imagine the rapid ending of such raging
lust. I spent with cries more like the braying of a donkey than any
other sound, and then lay like one dead on that glorious belly, with
head reposing between the firm and splendid bubbies, aunt clasping me
to her bosom, panting with all it had just granted. We lay long in
ecstatic trance of the delicious after-sensations. Our mutual internal
throbbings gradually re-excited all our passions. With renewed ardour I
quickly made my lascivious and libidinous aunt spend again on my
delighted prick, which kept ramming at her during the swoon-like pause
which spending produced; she had taught me this was exquisite delight
to her. She soon resumed the full swing of her lust, but suddenly
stopping, said--

"Charlie, my darling, withdraw, and shove it in behind." She quickly
turned round, with great agility, prompted by the excess of her
desires. I was behind her in an instant, and as my prick was reeking
with the fuck she had just so plentifully bedewed it with, and the
divine lower orifice had also received its tricklings, I had no
difficulty in pushing firmly but not too forcibly right up to the
meeting of her stupendous buttocks and my belly. She sighed deeply with
delight, when she felt me fully imbedded, and began the delicious side
wriggle, while I remained for some minutes quiet, that I might enjoy
the superb beauty of those mighty orbs, in all their play of passion.
Aunt grew furious with lust. Her hand was actively frigging both
clitoris and cunt. She called out to me to shove on; two or three
thrusts on my part, and the dear, lecherous creature again poured down
her nature. I paused to restrain my own discharge, but made my prick
throb within its most exquisite sheath, which never ceased responding
most deliriously. It was but for a minute or two, when my own fierce
passion drove me to very energetic action. My delighted aunt seconded
my movements, fast and furious grew our sport, until, with cries of the
wildest lust, we both spent deliciously together. I sank on her
glorious bottom and back, and by embracing her superb bubbies with both
hands, until her exquisite pressures again renewed my forces, and drove
me on to another delightful career, in which again the hot lust of my
aunt drew down from her several discharges to my one. At last we sank
both together, in all the joys of fully satiated desire. Again I lay
for some time on that broad and beauteous back, until aunt said I must
withdraw, as she had great natural want. I instantly withdrew, out he
came with a loud plop, followed immediately by a tremendous succession
of farts. Aunt professed to be quite horrified, but I only burst into a
loud fit of laughter and told the dear creature to fart, piss, or shit,
whenever she felt inclined, I should only love her the better. She said
she must at once do the latter, and was running off to the water closet
as soon as she could hurry on some clothes. But I drew out the chamber,
and begged her to sit down there at once. It would give me pleasure and
excite me as well. She was too hard pressed to hesitate, so sitting
down, she had a "hell of a let-fly" as a military friend of mine used
to say. I stooped over her back, caressed her bubbies and when she
turned up her delighted face, our lips were glued together in a loving
kiss, while my nose sniffed the really delicious odour that came from
her. When she had done, she begged me to hand her a towel to wipe
herself.

"No, no, my darling aunt, nothing of the sort; stoop down forward on to
your knees, and I will lick the delicious orifice clean with my tongue."

She laughed, kissed me, and told me I was a darling boy, just after her
own heart, but hardly expected I had already acquired the tastes of my
uncle, the rector, whose letch lay in that practice. She let herself
down on her knees as her sublime arse raised itself from the pot, and
stooping her head low down, presented her immense buttocks before me,
with the chink between well stretched open. I move the pot on one side,
threw myself on hands and knees, and eagerly kissing the exquisite
orifice, greedily licked it clean, and thrusting my tongue well within,
rolled it about, to the great delight of dear aunt, whose passions were
instantly aroused, and her divine backside began to wriggle. I shoved
my thumb up her cunt, and frigged until she spent. Meanwhile my own
unruly member had become distended to his full size, and was throbbing
with desire. So raising my body erect, I brought him again to the rosy
orifice I had just been tongueing, and to my aunt's infinite delight,
again housed him as far as he could go, and again began active
operations, which I continued until aunt's lasciviousness again made
her spend. I paused a little after this, or otherwise I should have
gone off myself. Stooping over the glorious bottom, I replaced her hand
with my own, and began frigging her clitoris, till her passions, again
excited, made her begin ecstatic movements, in which I joined until the
grand crisis seized us both together, ushered in with cries of joy. We
spent, and sank down sideways on the floor in quite a death swoon of
ecstatic and satisfied lust. Here we lay quite exhausted for some time.
At last aunt let me out, and begged me to rise.

"I must purify you, my darling boy, as you did me." And seizing my limp
prick in her mouth she sucked it clean, until she began to feel
symptoms of the resurrection of the flesh. She hastily rose, and said--

"No, Charlie, you have done far too much to-night. I must see you to
your bed, that you may get at least a couple of hours sleep."

She took up my night-shirt, threw it over me, led me to my bedroom,
tenderly embraced me, and thanked me for such a night of pleasure as
she had never in all her life enjoyed the equal. Then locking me in,
she retired to her own bed. It may well be supposed that after such
exertions, I slept the sleep of the just for many hours. My aunt had
frequently come to look at me, but seeing me in so sound a slumber,
would not have me disturbed--a politic proceeding, as it resulted in a
fuller indulgence in the summer house that day than would have happened
if my powers had not been restored by refreshing sleep.

This kind of life had been going on for nearly three weeks. The doctor
became less easy to move. One morning I had fucked my aunt twice; the
doctor's prick at the end of the second had stiffened to about half
stand. I took it into my mouth, which, with handling his ballocks and
postillioning his bottom-hole, brought him up to the-full standard. He
proposed to bugger aunt while I did the same kind office to himself. A
caprice seized me, and I proposed, on the contrary, that we should both
fuck aunt's capacious cunt at once. Aunt, for form's sake, cried out
against it, but the idea tickled the fancy of my uncle, who would not
only enjoy all the beauties of my aunt's glorious backside in motion,
but could postillion her as well. So I lay down on my back, aunt
mounted me, and presented her splendid bum to the attack of her excited
husband. He first thrust his prick up to the hilt in her luscious and
well-bedewed cunt; when well lubricated, he withdrew, to allow me to
make my place in full possession, then bringing his stiff-standing
prick against the root of mine, pressing it well down, he gently shoved
forward, and gradually sheathed himself within the well-stretched and
capacious orbit of my aunt, who winced a little in pretended pain, but
who, by the grip she immediately gave to the double fuck within her,
showed how much gratified she was. After a pause of enjoyment, I gave
the signal for exact joint movements, both pulling out gently, and
sliding slowly in again. Two or three thrusts, aided by the doctor's
finger in her bottom-hole, sufficed to make dear leacherous aunt spend
profusely. We increased our speed, but still not fast, which quickly
re-awakened all aunt's lust. Before we ourselves were ready, the dear
lascivious creature again poured down her nature, boiling hot, on our
delighted pricks. This produced such excitement upon us that we could
no longer restrain our own desire to come to the ecstatic conclusion.
Our movements became more rapid. We each felt the electric-like
sensation of the approaching crisis. Aunt doubly felt the influence of
our increasing speed and hardness, and was as ready as ourselves to
pour down the tribute to the goddess of love or lust, holy Mother
Venus. The novelty, the pressure, and the excess of pleasure declared
itself in the loud cries of the last crisis, as we all died away in the
enrapturing sensations produced by the intense satisfaction our desires
had experienced. We lay long wrapped in the after-ecstasy; aunt's
delicious internal movements began again. The doctor's prick had shrunk
to a merry piece of inanimate dough, and he withdrew, begging us at the
same time to change our position, and let him enjoy seeing me attack my
aunt in rear. This inflamed me at once. Aunt rolled from off me. I took
my place behind, and we ran a most delicious course, rendered much more
excitable to me by the introduction of uncle's two fingers up my
fundament, which kept time with my action in the delicious aperture of
my aunt's most superb and glorious backside, the movements of which
beneath my delighted gaze had not been the least stimulating part of
the enjoyment. The crisis was most ecstatic, and I sank exhausted on
her broad buttocks and beautiful back, to clasp her lovingly in my arms
and sob out bawdy terms of the warmest endearment. The doctor, who had
very much enjoyed the sight, but who pointed out the sadly downcast
state of his prick, which had been in no wise excited by the scene,
said to his wife--

"My darling, we must have recourse to the grand remedy, I will also
initiate dear Charlie into a new mystery of love, of which he can have
no idea."

I guessed at once what he meant, but professing extreme ignorance, I
begged him to tell me what it was. Aunt rose and said--

"My darling, your uncle requires his blood to be excited by flogging
his buttocks with a birch rod."

"How odd," said I, "I never felt anything but the severest pain when I
was flogged, and I took precious good care not to deserve it again. How
then can it excite?"

"You shall see, my dear."

She opened her wardrobe and produced a formidable rod of fine fresh-cut
birch twigs. The doctor begged me to lie down on my back--he got over
me, and we commenced sucking each other's pricks. Mine stood at once,
as the doctor, in addition to sucking, thrust a couple of fingers up my
bottom-hole, and frigged away as fast as he sucked. The doctor's
buttocks were left at the mercy of aunt, who flogged away at them with
no gentle hand. I spent before the doctor could quite get his prick to
standing point, but the copious torrent I poured into his mouth, and
his after-suction on my prick, in addition to the red raw state of his
buttocks, at last brought him up to full stand. He wanted to put it
into me when ready, but aunt said that as flogger she had herself
become greatly excited, and must have it herself.

"While this dear prick," throwing herself on it, and sucking it, "shall
fuck me at the same time."

I was quite ready, and she straddled across me, and guided my now
longing prick into her luscious cunt. She soon stopped, and we tongued
each other while the doctor was mounting to the assault on her
delicious bottom-hole. As soon as he was housed, we began another
charming course, in which aunt, as usual, spent frequently before our
less lecherous natures were ready to join in one general and exquisite
discharge. We went off in furies of delighted lust, and then sank
exhausted in the delicious after-sensation. We long lay in the sweet
inanition and luxury of satiated lust. At last we disconnected
ourselves, rose, and laved each other with cold water, more as a
restorative than as a purification. Aunt and I had two bouts after--one
in front and one behind. The doctor would not allow a fresh application
of the birch, as he said it would only produce so great an exhaustion
as would require days to restore. I retired after this, but ever
afterwards the doctor was regularly birched before he could even
copulate once. Sometimes he required to flog my aunt's glorious bum to
excite his fading powers, declaring that it was almost as exciting as
being flogged. He even gave it me gently, although I hardly ever
required it, but I professed my surprise at its efficiency.



The holidays were at an end, but I was as yet the only boarder. There
were, however, some twenty or thirty youths from the neighbourhood, who
were day scholars at the doctor's school. Among these the doctor had
his pick in the flogging way, but he never allowed them to know
anything of our other proceedings, or to imagine that the birching
which took place was otherwise than as a punishment for faults or
inattention. However, I was generally the chosen companion of these
whippings, in which I acted as horse, or holder of the boy to be
flogged. Of course I took good care to expose as much as possible their
lovely cocks, as well as their plump bottoms, and as this excited me as
well as the doctor, it often ended, after the culprit was dismissed, in
my flogging the doctor, followed by a mutual rack off in each other's
bottoms.

There was one fine, plump, girlish-looking youth, named Dale, who was
here for the first half. He had not as yet been brought up for
punishment, although the doctor had confided to me the letch he had
taken to flog his fine fat bottom. One day, Master Dale brought a
sealed note from his widowed mother, who lived about a mile from the
village, in a charming cottage ornee. The doctor read the note. By
chance I was looking at him, and saw a smile of joy light up his
features.

"Come here, Master Dale," said he in a mild and gentle voice, "your
mother tells me that you have behaved in a most shameful manner to your
pretty young cousin, who is residing with your mamma."

Master Dale blushed scarlet, for he was not aware until now that any
one had been a witness to the scene that had taken place between him
and his pretty cousin.

This was what had passed. The cousin, a lovely girl of fifteen, was in
a secluded spot in the garden, near an arbour, the preceding afternoon.
She was bending down, tying up a flower close to the ground, which made
her stoop to such a degree that she could only reach it with ease by
having her legs wide apart. Her back was towards the walk by which
young Dale was advancing. As he approached unheard by her, he could not
fail to see peeping out between the stretched open expanse of snowy
drawers the inner part of her well-rounded globes of dimpled ivory. Her
shift had somehow worked upwards, and revealed all the charms of her
delicate young bum and plump white thighs. The sight inflamed the youth
beyond measure. He crept up noiselessly quite close to her, and,
stooping down until his head was below the level of her raised
petticoat, he feasted his eyes for some time with the lovely prospect
before him, her little virgin rosebud slit, its pink and pouting lips,
plump little mount already delicately shaded with a curly foliage that
promised soon to be much more dense, together with the swell of her
lovely young thighs and calves. All this was quite unsuspected by the
object of his admiration, who was absorbed in her garden operations. At
length, however, the excited youth could not resist the temptation of
applying his soft warm hand to the parts he was admiring, which made
Miss scream slightly--she thinking it was some insect up her
petticoats-exclaiming--

"Oh, dear! oh, dear!"

But turning her head round, she discovered the delinquent.

"Forgive me, Ellen dear, but really you exposed so very pretty a sight
while stooping that upon my word I could not help it."

Now girls are curious as well as boys, perhaps more so; and if the
truth must be told, Miss had for some time past longed for an
opportunity to become better acquainted with things in general, and,
therefore, thought here was a chance not to be thrown away. So, after
some little show of resistance on her part, for decency's sake, it was
agreed between them that he should have a good look at _hers_, if he
would afterwards show her _his_. Miss Ellen had never seen a male
"diddle," as she and her young playfellows called it, not even that of
a boy, and she was all excitement and expectation to feel with her own
hand the "funny thing," for so a communicative servant-maid had
described it, who at the same time had fully explained the theory of
its use, which made Miss long to obtain some practical knowledge also.
So to the arbour they both adjourned. Miss Ellen first lay back upon
the seat, while the young rogue unfastened her drawers, and pulling
them down, feasted his eyes with a full view of her virgin charms as
long as he pleased, for Miss Ellen was a lecherous little maid, who
really felt a precocious pleasure in being thus exposed to the close
observation and admiration of one of the opposite sex, although for
form's sake she covered her blushing face with her delicate little
hands. He touched _it_, pressed _it_, rubbed _it_ with his finger. Her
thighs trembled and opened. Taught by nature, he imprinted a burning
kiss on the lovely little quim before him. She sighed, and mechanically
put her hand on his head and pressed it closer to her naked skin.
Guided by his feelings, he indulged in movements of his lips and
pressures which speedily excited the amorous little maid to such an
extent as to make her give down with a deep and trembling sigh the
first tribute of her virgin cunt. Feeling the warm liquid oozing from
the pouting orifice on his closely pressed lips, he could not help
tasting it with his tongue. This reawakened very quickly the
sensibilities of the lecherous little thing, and awoke her to the
desire to practise a like pleasure with his cock. So reminding him of
his promise, she made him stand up before her, while she undid his
trousers with her fairy fingers, all trembling with excitement, and
drew out his stiff affair, which already gave promise of a very
respectable future, now swollen to a size it had never before known.
Delighted at the sight of so bewitching a plaything, she made him lie
down as she had done, and kneeling beside him, with cheeks glowing with
excitement, she closely examined every part of the rampant little
member. Strange to say, no hand, hardly even its owner's, had as yet
invaded its virgin precincts, and it had not yet had its ruby head
fully uncovered, although he was upwards of fifteen. The delight caused
by the touch of her warm hand pressing and encircling his stiffened
cock was most exquisite. She was not long, however, before she became
curious to see what could possibly be underneath the skin that covered
its rounded head. In her toying she sought to draw the skin back over
the head, a slight cry of pain from him caused her to stop. But when,
be she young or be she old, is a woman's curiosity to be baulked. She
had managed to draw it back a short way, and now it suddenly occurred
to her that by the help of a little moisture her object might be
accomplished without hurting the dear fellow. By an impulse of passion
she stooped and took the rosy head into her delicious little mouth,
closing her coral lips around it, and lubricating it with her tongue,
to the intense gratification of the youth, who involuntarily wriggled
his body about voluptuously, and could not help raising it up to her
mouth. This movement, combined with the pressure of the lips, perfectly
succeeded, without further pain, in completely unhooding the charming
little cock she was so deliciously embracing in the soft folds of her
lips. She lifted up her head to see the result. The tight foreskin had
closed below the nut, and left the now fiery red head bursting with
excitement, and visibly throbbing with intensity of passion. Her joy
and delight at this full revelation of the "funny thing," as she
continued to call it, now knew no bounds. She drove him nearly frantic
with her ardent caresses--she again drew the covering over the
vermillion head, and still finding that it did not easily return again,
she thrust her head down upon it, and with lips, mouth, and tongue
began again her attempt to unhood it. Poor Dale was brought up to the
wildest state of excitement, his hands involuntarily pressed down her
head, his body rose to meet it, and at that ravishing instant the grand
crisis seized him, and, with a cry of delight, he shot forth his first
tribute to Venus within the delicious mouth in which he was enclosed.
The ecstatic gush poured down the throat of the dear girl, and she
gulped it all down by the mere effort to avoid choking. Poor Dale's
hands fell down insensibly from her head, which she instantly withdrew,
and gazed on the youth. To her great surprise she beheld the so lately
rampant weapon drooping its head and withdrawing within its shell,
while some few drops of a milky white creamy like liquid were slowly
oozing from the small orifice off its head. While she gazed it reduced
itself to a mere shadow of its former state, and the foreskin slowly
covered again the so lately fiery and bursting head. She was lost in
wonder, and was about to express her surprise at the strangeness of the
whole affair, but they now became aware that footsteps were
approaching. Fortunately for them, as they thought, the noise of the
gravel underfoot was distinguishable at such a distance that they had
time to arrange their clothes, and when Dale's mother appeared at the
arbour, she found them, on entering, quietly seated and talking
together; and thanks to the youth's discharge in his cousin's sweet
mouth, without any tell-tale flushings of his face. Little did they
suspect she had already seen all.

This then was Master Dale's misconduct, and this it was that had been
fully and minutely detailed in the note sent by this mother to the
doctor, with a request that he should punish him well in whatever way
he should think proper. The note further begged to know the terms for
his becoming a boarder with the doctor, as she could no longer have him
residing in her house with her orphan niece, whose guardian she was.
You may easily imagine the double delight of the doctor. Another
boarder, a point of some consequence to him after a previous scandal
which, although hushed up, had deprived him of house pupils; and now
with two, he foresaw a quick return to his full number; and then his
delight at having to flog young Dale, and the erotic pleasure of
drawing from him the exciting description of their young loves and
voluptuous actions.

"Now Master Dale," said the doctor, "you and I have an account to
settle, follow me."

And without a word further he led him into his private room, where, as
was generally understood in the school, he birched the worst offenders.
Arrived in the room alone with the young culprit, he locked the door,
and taking a large cutting birch rod from a closet, sat down on a sofa.
He called the youth to him and told him to unbutton and let down his
trousers, and tuck up his shirt well under his waistcoat. This being
done, the doctor said--

"Now, Master Dale, we shall see if this birch will cool your itching
for feeling your pretty cousin's private parts."

Poor Dale had never yet been punished more severely than by the hand of
his mamma, and certainly trembled at the sight of the formidable birch
rod threatening his now bare bottom; yet, notwithstanding his fears,
the allusion to the pretty private parts of his cousin so fired his
imagination that his cock instantly stiffened and stood out, to the
infinite delight of the doctor, who augured therefrom a future further
felicity. Keeping him standing close beside him, and enjoying the sight
of his youthful charms so deliciously exposed immediately before his
eyes, he proceeded--

"So, Master Dale, you have, it seems, been gratifying yourself with
looking and feeling between the legs and thighs of a pretty young girl
of fifteen, your cousin, is she not?"

"Yes, sir," sobbed out the youth.

The doctor's gaze was fixed upon the stiff and rampant member of the
youth, watching the throbbings produced by every allusion to the
luscious scene of the day before.

"Now, come, tell me all about it," said he, putting his arm round the
sobbing boy's waist, and making him stand still closer beside him. "Was
she such a very pretty girl?"

Another throb of the rampant member.

"Yes, sir."

"And you saw all her legs, thighs, plump little bottom, rosy pouting
little _slit_"--(_throb_--_throb_--_throb_)--"moist with the dew of
excitement and amorous play eh?"

The little machine seemed ready to burst at the thought of it.

"And did it have the same effect as I see it now has on _this?_ Dear
me, how naughty it is."

And here the lecherous doctor took the rampant little cock in his hand
and pressed it.

"And what did she do to this, did she touch it so?" squeezing it gently.

"Yes, sir," stammered out the youth, who was getting greatly excited.

"And so?" said the doctor, passing his hand gently and caressingly up
and down the stiffened and throbbing little cock.

"Yes, sir."

"And so, too, I'll be bound," pushing back the foreskin off the head,
and as quickly replacing it, several times.

"Ye--es. Oh! sir; oh! oh!"

The boy's feelings, as the doctor swiftly frigged his cock, began to be
exquisite. The doctor could not resist the temptation of bringing
things to a crisis. Clasping the youth tightly with one arm, he
continued his toying with the plaything in a quick exciting manner,
apparently without reflecting upon what he was about, uttering, at
intervals--

"Dear me," and "how naughty it was of you; but how pretty she must have
been to tempt you to do so, was it not?"

The lovely youth was now in paradise. In the exquisite sensations of
pleasure he felt he was losing all consciousness when the doctor
suddenly stopped short and said--

"This is indeed, a pretty piece of business, seducing your young
cousin; you must be cured of such doings in future by means of a good
flogging with an excellent birch rod, and on this your saucy bottom."

Here he let fall the arm that had clasped the boy's waist, and let his
hand wander over the plump, hard, and lovely orbs. The doctor now took
up the rod which he had previously dropped to occupy his hand with the
charming young prick he had just been so deliciously frigging. Shaking
the rod angrily at the now trembling youth, he exclaimed, in a fierce
voice--

"Now, you young rascal, down, down on your knees, and beg to be
flogged."

The poor boy was forced, trembling, to obey. This over, the doctor
commanded the delinquent to lie down across the sofa. Reluctantly he
complied, but at last he straddled across it with his snow-white plump
backside fully bared to view, and a fair mark to the threatening rod.
He looked like a young Adonis displaying his beauties to a satyr. The
doctor was greatly excited at the lovely prospect, and gloated his eyes
on the beautiful display, and, then and there, there sprang up a
determination to fully enjoy the ravishing of these virgin charms
before many weeks were over. Lifting the rod on high, he cried out--

"Now, you young villain, I'll teach you to look up young ladies'
petticoats again, I warrant."

Clasping him tight round the waist, the rod descended smartly on the
lovely hillocks of the boy's charming backside.

"There! there!" cried the doctor at each blow.

"Oh! sir, oh! Do pray forgive me!" screamed the beautiful youth, as he
felt the stinging strokes descend on his hitherto virgin posteriors.

"Oh sir. Oh! sir. I'll never do so any more. Oh! sir. I won't indeed.
Oh! pray, sir, have mercy."

The doctor, whose erotic passions were fully aroused, was deaf to all
his entreaties, and kept on flogging harder and harder, and faster and
faster while the poor boy's bottom bounded and tossed upon the sofa;
but he was kept in a firm position by the strong arm of the doctor,
who, to hold him the faster, had laid hold of the stiff cock still at
full stand.

"No, no," said he, "you shall not escape my cuts, I assure you,"
cutting at the lovely delicate buttocks with all his might.

"Oh! oh! sir; mercy, mercy; I can't bear it."

"You must bear it, you young rascal you shall have no mercy until I
have made your bottom bleed for your crime."

The poor youth, from the pain he was suffering, bounded up and down on
the sofa as he felt the stinging blows descend upon his bottom. This
action caused his standing cock to rub up and down in the doctor's warm
hand, who seemed to have accidently laid hold of it. The effect was
such that the poor youth hardly knew whether he felt most pleasure or
pain, for while his posteriors were of a burning heat, the warmth flew
to the opposite part, which was so deliciously clasped in the doctor's
caressing hand. He ground his teeth with pleasure and pain, he ceased
to cry out, but sobbed and moaned with the excess of indefinable
feelings. The doctor never ceased lecturing him, dwelling continually
on the beauties of his lovely young cousin and the scene in the arbour.
He thought but of her, of her lovely pink little slit so sweetly shaded
with soft downy short curls; how she had so charmingly caressed his
cock, until he felt a heave and a shudder, another, a sensation as if
he was going to expire, a short cry, a catching of his breath. Wildly
and vigorously he thrust his member down on the doctor's warm hand, he
shut his eyes, he felt not the rod, although the doctor redoubled the
strokes with all the force of his arm, and drew blood at every cut. A
bound, a convulsive start, and he felt as if his lifeblood were coming
from him--out it spurted in large drops on the sofa and on the doctor's
hand. The youth had with difficulty shed another tribute to Venus. For
a moment or two he felt as if in paradise, but a sharp cut from the rod
quickly aroused him. He was soon fully alive again to its tortures.

"Why, you young rascal, what is this you have been doing on my best
sofa, eh, sir?" said the doctor.

Another sharp stroke demanded a reply.

"I, sir. Oh! sir; indeed I--that is--indeed, I don't know."

"No lies or evasions here, sir, for they will not avail you. Your
bottom shall pay for this nastiness. Why, what is it? What can it be? I
never saw the like of this in my life, I declare," and he examined it
with his eyeglass, saying more to the same effect.

Poor Master Dale was, we know, quite in the dark as to what it could
be, or how it came there.

"Has this ever occurred to you before," asked the doctor.

"Yes, sir, yesterday, when my cousin was caressing it in her mouth,"
replied the frightened youth, "but I really don't know how it happened,
and did not mean any harm."

"Oh, indeed!" said the doctor, "your mother did not mention that, did
she see you?"

"No, sir, it happened just as she was coming through the shrubbery, and
was all over before she reached the arbour."

"And so your cousin took it into her mouth, why did she do that?"

"She was curious to see what was under the skin of its head, and
finding it would not go back without hurting me, she put it into her
mouth to wet it and make it go back easier, which it did for the first
time; she pulled it forward again, and again put it into her mouth to
push the skin back with her lips, when I felt funny all over, and
something came out of me into her mouth."

"Indeed! Well, you must tell me all about that another time. This
flogging will be enough for the present, but I shall punish you for
your nastiness some other time. Put up your trousers, in a day or two I
shall want you in this room to pay for your dirty conduct."

The poor boy retired, sobbing hysterically.

The second day after this the doctor sent for Master Dale, who, in the
meantime, had occupied the bedroom next to mine. The doctor was in his
private room in his dressing-gown, long and flowing, so that for the
moment it concealed the fact that he had nothing but his shirt on below
it. He received Master Dale somewhat sternly, saying--

"Now, sir, for your punishment for your last nasty misconduct."

"Oh, sir," said the frightened and trembling youth, "I really could not
help it," and he began to cry. "Oh! pray, sir, don't flog me so hard
again."

"The more trouble that you give me, the harder will be the flogging.
Now take off your jacket and waistcoat."

The youth did so.

"Now come close to me."

The doctor then lowered down Dale's trousers, and raising his shirt,
contemplated with great pleasure the pretty belly of the lovely boy,
and then turning him round, under pretence of seeing if the weals of
the last flogging were still visible, he gazed on his white firm
backside and swelling thighs, examining the marks still left from the
previous punishment. He then turned him round, and inspected the pretty
little cock, which, under the mortal fear he was in, hung down its head
in a limp and pitiable state.

"And so this is the little offender," said he, applying his hand to it,
and squeezing and pressing it gently. "What a naughty little thing it
is!"

The youth could not avoid showing the pleasure these lascivious
caresses gave him, and smiled.

"Oh, don't smile, sir, this is no laughing matter. Look at the marks of
the mess you made on my sofa," pointing to it. "I can't have my
furniture spoiled in this manner, so if your little cock is to be
naughty again, I must flog you upon my knees, but first come here; take
off these trousers, which hanging about the legs are only in the
way--there. Now sit down on my knee, and tell me all about this naughty
little thing."

He drew aside his robe, so that the boy's bare bottom came in naked
contact with his brawny naked thighs, and the youth could feel the
doctor's prick swelling up, although that part was still covered with
his shirt. The doctor, taking hold of the youth's now standing prick,
asked if it had ever behaved so badly before the scene with his pretty
young cousin.

"No sir, never. I never thought of it until I got sight of her bare
bottom and other parts by accident."

The doctor continued his toyings, caressing the young balls, and
feeling all over the plump and firm backside.

"Why, he is going to be naughty again!" said the doctor, as the youth's
prick throbbed under his exciting touches. "I must flog your bottom for
all this, for it is very naughty and improper. Why, you seem to take a
pleasure in it."

"Oh, sir, I never felt anything so delightful," said Master Dale.

"The more reason I should punish you, but remember, you bad boy, if you
are to do that dirty thing again, you must do it on my knee, and not on
the sofa."

The doctor then took the birch in hand, and with his arm round the
boy's waist, drew him to him, but before laying him across his knee, he
slipped the boy's shirt over his head, leaving him stark naked in all
the glorious fairness of skin and beauty of form. The doctor's eyes
gloated over the charming sight, but becoming too excited to pause
longer, he drew up his own shirt, displaying his fine pego at full
stretch. He bent the boy's warm body over his brawny thighs, and with
his arm pressed his glowing form against his own rampant pego--Dale's
young stiffened cock rubbing against the naked thigh he lay on. The
doctor now raised the rod, and said--

"Now, sir, for your punishment, I must flog this round, hard, little
bottom, till it reddens again."

Whack, whack, went the birch rod, but with much less force than on the
previous occasion, but still sufficiently stinging to cause the youth
to move up and down, rubbing his cock against the doctor's thighs, and
causing him such ecstasies as hardly to allow him to feel the blows.
His warm soft flesh, too, rubbing against the doctor's large, stiff
tool, soon put them both in a delirium of delight. The doctor then
changed his position, and drew the boy more over his belly, so that his
great prick could get between the boy's thighs, rubbing under his balls
in the trough between the buttocks, while the boy's cock rubbed against
the doctor's belly.

"Now," said the doctor, "I have got you fast, and must teach you not to
play such naughty tricks in future."

Whack--whack, again went the rod, causing the most delicious movements
of the boy's backside upon the doctor's excited prick, and not less
upon his own, which was rubbing against the doctor's belly, giving
fresh pleasure at each repetition of the blow. But neither of them had
spent yet. The boy's bottom was now red with a glowing heat, and his
cock was in a state of intense excitement, and the doctor's tool was as
stiff and randy as possible. The doctor now ceased his flogging, and
squeezing the boy tight against his person, said--

"Well, you have not done that naughty thing to-day--the flogging has
done you good."

The lovely boy looked up and smiled. He had felt the doctor's large
prick working away between his thighs, and pressing against the cleft
of his buttocks. As the doctor relaxed his hold, the boy turned half
round, thus releasing it from its confinement. Looking down, he beheld
the large stiff monster imbedded in a forest of dark curly hair,
presenting a startling contrast to his own small member, which was as
yet hardly fledged with a silky down around it.

"Ah!" said the doctor, who observed the flush of excitement the sight
of his superior prick gave the boy, "what a shame it is of you to
compel me to flog you in this manner, without my trousers. I must give
you a lecture--so sit on my knee, thus," placing him so that his lovely
bottom should press against the huge prick. Taking the boy's cock in
his hand, he said--

"How stiff it is."

"Yes, sir, I can't help it."

"Well, you must not play such naughty tricks. I can't allow it. You are
too young yet."

The doctor worked the skin of the sweet boy's cock up and down.

"Was that the way your pretty cousin played with it?"

"Yes, sir, and then she took it in her mouth."

"And did you like to have it done to you, you bad boy?"

"Oh! yes, sir, it is such pleasure."

"Does it really give you so much pleasure?"

"Yes indeed, it was most delicious."

"Dear me, I must try if it would do so to me, take hold of my cock and
rub it up and down, as she did, that I may know how it feels."

"The dear boy had already longed to do so, but had been afraid to say
so. He now seized with avidity the noble prick, so stiffly standing
beside him. He could hardly grasp it in his hand, and worked the skin
up and down in the most delicious manner. The doctor was in ecstasies.

"Oh, you naughty boy, to teach your master such bad things."

"Is it not very nice, sir?" said the charming youth, as the doctor's
buttocks responded to every stroke of his hand.

"Well, it is, indeed, very nice, I could not have believed it; but if
ever I catch you at it again, you may be sure I shall flog you."

And the doctor responded to every rub upon his prick with another rub
upon the boy's cock, until almost at the same moment a most delicious
mutual spend was the result of their lascivious toyings.

"Now," said the doctor, "put on your clothes, and remember you must
avoid such naughty tricks in future, or your bottom will pay for it."

The doctor made me aware of this, and arranged for a meeting of us
three, under the pretence of inattention which I was to simulate and
draw young Dale into some fault that would require punishment. It was
also arranged that I was to initiate him still more into the secret
pleasures of mutual satisfaction, so as to prepare him for still
greater gratification to the lecherous doctor, who liked nothing better
than "teaching the young idea how to shoot."

Accordingly, after passing a delicious night with my lovely and
glorious aunt and the doctor, in which we practised every delightful
method of enjoyment, and in which the doctor stimulated himself by
recalling and describing the exciting interview with the innocent
youth, I left them, and entered young Dale's room. He had insensibly
kicked off all the clothes, and lay on his back exposed, with his
promising young cock at full stand, throbbing from time to time; and by
the involuntary movements of his body, and the smile on his face, he
was evidently realising, in his sleep, the scene he had enacted with
his pretty young cousin. He was quite charming to look at, his young
and throbbing prick was deliciously fair, and you could see the blue
veins coursing through it, the top was only partially uncovered, the
point of the head showing its vermillion tip in fine contrast to the
creamy white and crossed blue veins of the stiffened shaft. His balls
were as yet not fully developed, but such as they were, they formed a
closely drawn up little bag, crimped and wrinkled, and felt as hard as
stones. I gently handled them, which made him heave his bottom in
evident ecstasy. It was all so beautiful and enticing, and I could not
resist stooping down, and taking the delicious morsel in my mouth.
Pressing the glorious head with my lips, I thrust, to his infinite
delight, the foreskin back, his buttocks instinctively rose to meet my
voluptuous and lascivious proceeding. He awoke on the instant, but in
that dreamy state that made him think he was only realising the
previous dream. His hands embraced my head, and pressed it down closer
on the delicious prick which already touched the back of my mouth. He
cried out in an ecstasy of delight.

"Oh, my darling Ellen, what a joy you are giving me. Oh! oh! it is
greater than I can bear."

I felt by the electric stiffening of his young cock that the crisis was
close at hand. I tickled his tightened balls with my hand, and pressed
a finger hard against his bottom-hole, but without entering more than
the depth of the nail, at the very instant that he poured his young
tribute into my longing mouth. I immediately swallowed the greater
portion, lubricating the still throbbing shaft with a part. For some
minutes he lay on his back, with closed eyes, in all the
after-enjoyment, heightened by the continued suction of his still
throbbing prick, which I kept up for a short time. At last he opened
his eyes. It was broad daylight, and when I lifted my head, his eyes
seemed almost to start out of their sockets in a sort of incredulous
surprise, at finding it was not his dear young Ellen, but me, his
school companion. For a minute or two he was speechless with
consternation, until taking hold of his fast receding little cock, I
asked if I had not given him quite as much pleasure as his darling
Ellen had previously done.

"Is it you? and Ellen! how do you know anything about my cousin?"

"Your cousin, is she? I did not know that, but when I came in, you were
dreaming of her, and muttering in your sleep the delight she gave you
by sucking your prick; so I thought I would give you the true pleasure
of the thing, and thus realise your dream; besides, I, myself, not only
love to suck a prick, but also to have my own sucked, and I could
neither resist the opportunity, nor fail to be delighted that you
should already have practical knowledge of its enjoyment--did I not
give you the greatest pleasure?"

"Oh, yes; it was most delicious, and then I thought it was my pretty
cousin, even after I awoke, which made it doubly delightful, for I had
no idea it would be so nice with another boy."

"Why not? see this charming little fellow is already raising himself up
again at the mere thought; look how its head is showing its ruby face,
and how it throbs. Ah! I must suck it again--it is so delicious."

I threw myself upon it, and devoured it at once, rapidly moving my head
up and down, and titillating the orifice of the urethra with my tongue.
I quickly drove him half mad with excitement. My mouth was full of
saliva. I slobbered some out on my fingers, and lubricated all about
the aperture of his charming backside, and then, as he became still
more furious in the upward lunges of his bottom, and downward pressures
of his hands on my head, I thrust my middle finger up his fundament,
and worked away, frigging it in unison with the movements of my mouth.
I drove him half frantic with pleasure, the ecstasy again seized him,
and with a cry of agonised delight, and a convulsive shudder, he poured
a still more copious draught of love's essence into my mouth, which, as
before, I greedily swallowed. He lay panting in ecstatic joy for a much
longer period than before, with convulsive upward thrusts of his still
half-stiffened prick within my mouth, which:' still continued its
pressures and suctions to his infinite delight. At last I rose. He held
out his arms. I precipitated myself into them; our lips met in sweet
embrace. I thrust my tongue into his mouth, and solicited him to do the
same, and we had some delicious tongueing, nature having at once
achieved his love education. We were closely entwined in a loving
embrace. I had become terribly excited notwithstanding the hard work I
had undergone during the night, and my prick stood stiff as iron
pressing against his belly. Suddenly the thought occurred to him that
he ought to gratify me in like manner as I had done him. He proposed
it, and begged me to turn from off him, and lie on my back. I
immediately complied, and pulling up my shirt, displayed my immense
splitter in all its glory.

"Good heavens!" he cried, "what an enormous cock! Why, it is bigger
than the doctor's."

"Oh! you have seen the doctor's, have you?" He blushed, and
acknowledged it. I drew from him an account of their proceedings, which
I already knew, but I was at the same time delighted to have surprised
the acknowledgment from himself, in his wonder at seeing my large
proportions. I made him show me all he had done to the doctor, and the
doctor to him; as all this was paving the way for future proceedings
with the doctor--in fact, the innocent youth was already playing into
our hands. His admiration of and handling my prick was meanwhile
exciting me up to the greatest pitch. As I had continued questioning
him regarding his proceedings with the doctor, he could only play with
my prick in his hands. Now that matters were getting too warm for
further discussion, he stooped down, but could only get the head and a
small portion of the upper part of the shaft into his mouth. His lips
closed beneath the gland in the most exquisite manner. I begged him to
grasp the lower part of the shaft with one hand, and to thrust a finger
of the other up my bottom-hole, which I had already lubricated by
spitting on my fingers and conveying the saliva in the desired
direction. He obeyed with the docility of an apt apprentice--and thus
working in unison, quickly brought on the ecstatic crisis. I seized his
head in my hands, and, at the final discharge thrust it down on my
delighted prick, as I poured out a perfect torrent of sperm, nearly
choking the poor youth with the length of prick I thrust into his
mouth. He was obliged to withdraw for an instant to take breath, but I
was pleased to see that he instantly resumed his delicious sucking of
my prick, which he continued to do until it gradually shrunk up to very
diminished proportions. I then drew him upon me, and we had another
sweet embrace of lips and tongues, and then, side by side, we held a
long converse on erotic matters. He told me all the tale of his affair
with his cousin, and, although I was already well acquainted with it, I
was glad to draw all the particulars from himself. I had seen the note
his mother wrote to the doctor. The minuteness and undisguised
description she had therein given struck me as very strange, and I
augured that she herself must be a lewd and lecherous person, to have
done more than merely hint at the affair, instead of dwelling,
doubtless in erotic delight, on such details. So I pumped him as to
what sort of woman his mamma was. His description showed that she was a
fine, full grown woman, old, in his opinion, but in reality in the
prime of life, between thirty-five and forty. He had not scanned her
proportions with any erotic thought and did not seem to attach the idea
of the woman to her--only that of the mother. But I drew out of him
that she was broad in the shoulders, full in the bosom, with a small
waist, small feet, and small hands, a very fine head of hair, and fine
eyes--evidently a desirable woman. Already I had set my imagination in
play, and began to hope I might some day work my way into her favour.
It will be found how well I succeeded, as these true memories will
describe when I arrive at the period of my success with her. For the
present I had advanced the erotic education of the dear youth
considerably, and thus prepared him for further initiation at the hands
of the doctor and his glorious and magnificent _cara sposa_, who had
already determined to enjoy his first fruits in cunny land. We had a
similar enjoyment, carried somewhat further the next morning, in which
we practised more fully the frigging of the bottom, and discussed the
pleasure it produced. I was gradually leading him on. That morning I
purposely arranged that we should be late in entering the school-room.
The doctor sternly reprimanded us, and told us we must attend him in
his private room after twelve o'clock. Poor Dale turned pale as he
heard this, dreading the punishment to come of which his experience was
so recent and so severe.

At twelve we, apparently ruefully, entered the doctor's _sanctum
sanctorum_. He had preceded us by some few minutes, and had already
donned his long dressing-gown, by which I was certain that he had at
the same time doffed his pantaloons.

"Now then, boys, you must prepare for your punishment, I cannot allow
this evidently wilful inattention. Off with your clothes except your
shirts and stockings."

We hesitatingly stripped; poor Harry Dale weeping at the thought of the
dreaded punishment. I deemed it prudent also to draw a long face. The
doctor spread a towel over his sofa, saying we had such naughty cocks
that we were constantly dirtying his sofa. He then desired us to kneel
on it with our heads down, and our tails well up. He then rolled up our
shirts, and tucked them in above the small of our backs, in doing which
he indulged in various lascivious touchings, which excited us as well
as himself, and all our three cocks were at full stand. Harry Dale
turned his head to gaze at mine, and could not resist putting his hand
upon it, and gently pressing its large stiff shaft. Young Dale's
smaller, but very beautiful member, which was daily developing itself
in a striking manner, also excited me, and I reciprocated his caresses.

"This will never do," said the doctor, "I must flog this evil spirit
out of you."

He threw off his dressing-gown to be more at his ease, he said, and
taking rod in hand, applied it gently in turns to each of our
projecting bottoms. It was not for punishment but for excitement that
he operated upon us. He quickly threw our bottoms all in a glow, and
our excitement became intense, and we wriggled our bums in evident
delight. This was the point the doctor wished to attain, that he might
arrive at his desired object, which was the possession of young Dale's
bottom-hole.

"Stop, stop, my dear boys, I see you are at your naughty tricks again,
but there must be no spending yet; get up. We must all strip to the
buff, and I shall show you how they used to flog me when I was at
school. Stand up, Charles."

I did so, and the doctor for an instant handled, in evident delight, my
huge stiff-standing pego, drawing young Dale's attention to its much
larger dimensions than his own.

"Now, lean half forward on the sofa. Dale, put your arms round his
waist, and stow away this charming rampant little fellow between the
cheeks of Charles' buttocks. Charles, do you spit on your hand, and
moisten between the cheeks, and then press with your hand his throbbing
young prick against the cleft."

I did as directed. Young Dale felt so deliciously sheathed that he
thrust his cock well forward.

"Now," said the doctor, "you are properly horsed, as we used to say,
and now, for a little more flogging of these fine hard, rosy mounts,"
and he lasciviously caressed them before applying the rod.

Whack--whack--whack--fell the strokes, sufficiently sharply to make
Master Dale wince and wriggle his bottom to and fro. Quickly the
exciting pleasure overcame all pain, and his lust rising, he thrust
furiously in the artificial channel he was operating in. I now
shortened the grasp of my hand on his shaft, and pressing it somewhat
upwards, raising my buttocks at the same time, I directed it so fairly
upon the aperture that at the next push it entered fully two inches
within; then again favouring his return stroke, he completely sheathed
himself up to the meeting of his belly against my buttocks. I gave him
a pressure which had an instant effect, and he began to thrust fast and
furiously, evidently enjoying it to the utmost. I let him feel the full
enjoyment of his new quarters, only telling him to lay hold of my cock
and frig me; and then I cried out to the doctor--

"Flog him well, sir, he has thrust his cock into my bottom-hole."

This was the very thing the doctor most wished for. So he continued his
flogging only to such an extent as to still more inflame the lust of
the now lecherously excited boy, who shortly brought on the final
crisis and died away in delight as he shot his first tribute within the
divine temple of Priapus. At the moment of the crisis coming on, the
doctor had ceased his flogging and wetting two fingers gradually
introduced them into the bottom-hole of young Dale, and frigged him in
unison with his movements into me, so that the ecstasy was almost more
than the poor boy could bear. He lay almost inanimate on my back, but
his still throbbing half-standing cock responded to the inward
pressures I was exercising upon it. The doctor had ceased his flogging
to admit and caress the well-formed posterior of the charming boy.
Becoming greatly excited, he drew him off me, and closely embraced him,
but professing at the same time to be greatly shocked; his prick,
meanwhile, gloriously stiff, pressed hard against young Dale's belly.
The doctor then relaxing his hold, young Dale gazed, with pleased
enjoyment, on the size and stiffness of the doctor's cock, and, by an
impulse of passion, took it in hand, knelt before him, and put it into
his mouth, and sucked it lasciviously. The doctor placed his hands on
Dale's head, and pressed it down for a minute or two, and then begged
the dear youth to rise, as he did not yet wish to spend--thanking him
for the exquisite pleasure he had given him.

"Now," said he, "it is your turn to flog, so Charlie, you must be
horsed upon me, and Harry Dale shall take a first lesson in the art of
flogging upon your posteriors."

The pose was arranged as before. My formidable weapon was placed
between the cheeks of the doctor's fine fat backside. His hand pressed
my cock as I had done to Dale's. Dale took the rod in hand, and at the
very first cut made me wince, for the young rogue laid on with a will.
The doctor had applied a good quantity of saliva to the end of my
prick, and thrusting out his buttocks, he quickly guided it into the
longing orifice, in which I vigorously sheathed myself to the utmost
extent. I seized his cock and squeezed it gently, but he begged me not
to make him spend, but to enjoy myself to the utmost, crying out, at
the same time to young Dale--

"Flog him well, Harry, for he has thrust his great tool up my
bottom-hole; it is wonderful how it ever could get in."

Indeed so little could young Dale believe in the possibility of such a
thing that he stopped flogging to assure himself of the fact, by both
touch and sight. I drew my prick out and in that he might be perfectly
satisfied of the truth, and the doctor wriggled his backside to and fro
to show what pleasure it gave him. Of course, all this was preliminary
to the grand attack he meant afterwards to make on the virgin aperture
in young Dale's bottom. After Harry had assured himself of the fact, he
pitched into my poor bottom with redoubled vigour, which, though it
greatly excited me at the moment, made my poor bum smart for days
afterwards. I quickly sent a torrent of sperm far into the entrails of
the doctor, to his great delight, but he tenaciously avoided spending
lest his powers should fail to overcome the natural obstacle of a
virgin bottom-hole, especially in one so young as Dale. Consequently,
after retaining me for some few moments in the delightful pressures of
the internal folds, he allowed me to withdraw, all reeking with my own
sperm. It was now the doctor's turn to be flogged by me, while he was
horsed on Harry's loins. As Harry had already found out what pleasure a
bottom-hole gave to the plugger of it, and had also seen how the doctor
seemed to enjoy, and so easily engulphed, the much larger weapon I
possessed, he had no idea there could be any pain accompanying it, and
consequently he lent himself entirely to every direction that was given
him. He placed himself in the easiest position, stuck his bottom well
out, stretching wide the channel between the orbs, and exposing a
charming little rosy aperture most tempting to the sight; indeed, the
doctor instantly knelt to pay his devotions to it, devouring it with
kisses, and thrusting his lecherous tongue within its tight little
folds, taking the opportunity to thoroughly lubricate it with his
spittle. This preliminary, followed by a little frigging with his
middle finger, which produced nothing but pleasurable sensations in the
dear youth, completely captivated him. The doctor wisely informed him
that the first attack was sure to be somewhat painful, but that if he
felt it so, he was not to draw away his body, but simply to complain,
and the doctor would instantly remain quiet without withdrawing, and he
would then find that the strange sensation would rapidly pass off, and
allow a further progress, which would be again arrested if the pain was
renewed. In this way he would eventually find that the pleasure would
become indescribably delicious, as he had seen how both Charlie and
himself had enjoyed it. Poor Dale assured the doctor he might proceed
at once, and he would be perfectly docile. So the doctor first asking
me to suck his cock a little to moisten it well, put the charming youth
in the best position, telling him to strain as if he wished to void
himself, then applying his well-lubricated pego to the rosy orifice, by
gentle pressure, he succeeded, with hardly a twinge of pain to the dear
boy, in housing the head and about two inches of the shaft within the
delicious receptacle. Here the pain became so great that young Dale
would have withdrawn himself away from the doctor had the latter not
taken the precaution to seize him by the two hips, and hold him as if
in a vice, but without attempting a further insertion then.

"Keep still, my dear boy, and I will not move, and you will find in a
minute or two that the strange sensation will pass away."

Turning his head to me, he said--

"Charlie, gently frig the dear boy."

I immediately did so, which rapidly had the effect of exciting him up
to a pitch that made him forget all pain, and he even thrust his bottom
further back, and as I had taken the opportunity of the pause to drop
some more spittle on the lower shaft, a further gentle pressure forced
it in almost up to the hilt. Here, again, young Dale cried out to stop,
it was so painful.

The doctor paused again. I continued caressing his now inflamed and
stiffened prick. His convulsive twitches, caused by my lascivious
caresses, were followed by involuntary wrigglings, which of themselves
completed the entire insertion of the doctor's excited prick. He still
continued quiet, allowing the passions of the youth to become still
more excited. Then gradually and gently withdrawing, and as gently
again thrusting within, he went on until the youth's movements betrayed
the raging lust that possessed him--then the doctor increased his pace.
I frigged on fast and furious, and in a few minutes they both died away
in wild excess of the most ecstatic joy. As to Dale, his gaspings and
wild cries of delight proved that the final joys were almost too great
for him to bear. The doctor had drooped his head upon his chest, and
closed his eyes, in all the gratification of having ravished the first
fruits of this charming youth's beauteous bottom, and I could see by
his momentary convulsive thrusts, and the pressures of his hands on
Dale's hips to draw the bottom more completely against his belly, as
well as by the broken sighs that heaved his bosom, how exquisitely he
was enjoying his triumph. Gradually his cock reduced its dimensions,
but even when quite down and soft, it left the tight sheath it was in
with a "plop" showing how well and close those delicious folds had
embraced it. The doctor would not allow young Dale to rise until he had
embraced and kissed the lovely bottom that had just yielded him such
intense satisfaction. Then, drawing the youth to his bosom, he embraced
him most tenderly, and thanked him for the heroic manner in which he
had borne the attack, and told him he would never suffer so much in
after-attacks as he had done in this first taking of the virginity of
his bottom-hole.

It was thus this dear youth was initiated into our mysteries, and
henceforward he became an apt disciple, and by being introduced into
our interior circle, added much to the variety and enjoyment of our
orgies. For, as may well be supposed, my glorious and most lecherous
aunt thoroughly enjoyed the taking of his first tribute in the
legitimate temple of holy Mother Venus. I was present on the occasion,
which was supposed to be unknown to the doctor. The first coup was on
her belly, the sight of which and her truly magnificent cunt wildly
excited Dale, and his cock stood stiffer and really bigger than ever.
It was quite surprising how rapidly it developed when once he got
thoroughly into hardness. He fucked aunt twice, spending as rapidly as
she herself, lecherous as she was at all times. I acted postillion to
them both. I stopped further combats until I too could enter the field.
So aunt mounted upon him, and falling forward lent her divine backside
to all my fantasies. Twice we ran a course without changing. Then aunt
herself claimed my big prick for the contentment of her randy cunt. We
quickly changed positions. I, on my back, received dear aunt's
delicious cunt on my stiff-and-hard-as-wood-standing pego. She
straddled over me, and sank her luscious orbit down upon me until our
two hairs were crushed between us. Here, by rising and falling, she had
another delicious discharge before bending down to be embraced by my
loving arms. She then presented her most glorious bottom to the wonder
and admiration of dear Harry, who had been caressing and kissing it,
and at the critical moment had thrust a frigging finger in, and turning
his head in front had greatly increased the pleasure of my loved and
lecherous aunt by sucking the large nipple of her wondrously fine
bubby. When once she was fairly down on my belly, Harry scrambled up
behind, and quickly inserted his already fine but still comparatively
small prick, which, of course, found ready entrance where my splitter
had previously opened and greased the way; but he gave a cry, almost of
pain, or at least of surprise, on finding the sudden grip which my
aunt, with her wonderful power of pressure, instantly gave him. At it
we went, fast and furious, until again the grand crisis overtook my
lascivious aunt, who spent deliriously. We boys both paused a second or
two to allow her to enjoy her discharge to the utmost; then
recommencing with increased vigour and speed, we soon both discharged
at one and the same time our freights into the delighted vessels that
were conferring such exquisite enjoyment upon us. Aunt, too, did not
fail to join us at the ecstatic moment. We lay for many minutes panting
in all the after-sensations of the most exquisite joys humanity can
revel in. We kept it up for several hours, aunt sucking young Dale's
toothsome prick while I gamahuched and postillioned her to her infinite
satisfaction. In this way, and with repeated changes from one
receptacle to the other but always both occupied at once, we at last
gained a reprieve, and retired to well-deserved repose. The doctor, who
had kept out of the way on this our first bout with my glorious aunt,
afterwards apparently surprised us together, and, after giving us and
receiving a pretty sharp flogging, he joined in all the ecstasies of
our orgies. He especially delighted in being into my bottom while I
fucked his wife, and he himself had the double pleasure of having young
Dale's fast growing pego into his bottom at the same time. It was some
time longer before I succeeded in completely sheathing my huge prick in
the delicious bottom-hole of the dear youth, but at last I succeeded to
the utmost extent of my wishes, and although I continued to hurt him
for some weeks after the first attack, he could at last entertain me
with perfect ease, and we were thus enabled to play successively into
each other's bottoms, and every one of us enjoyed the exquisite delight
of fucking and being fucked at the same time.

As we grew more lasciviously intimate, I often turned the conversation
on his mother and cousin. At last I told him, I thought from his
description that his mother would be a good fuck, and that if ever I
had the opportunity I might cover his attack on his cousin by fucking
his mother; only we must lead her to believe that she took my
virginity. The idea pleased him. He began to think his mother must be a
desirable woman for me, as I was so largely hung; and then the
opportunity that I would give him to enjoy his longing for his cousin
was an inducement to second my views to the utmost. Towards the close
of the half-year his birthday occurred, and his mother could not do
less than have him home for the day. She felt that her niece would be
in greater security when Harry begged she would allow him to bring with
him the doctor's nephew--myself, to wit--telling her that we had become
very close friends as well as schoolfellows. I had previously told him
I should play the complete innocent, but should take care some time or
the other during the day to put myself in such a position that his
mother should get a glimpse of my prick, so that if not immediately
successful, I might pave the way for future success. His birthday fell
on a Saturday. We were only asked to spend the day, with the intention
of returning in the evening. Accordingly, on the happy day we made our
appearance after breakfast. I have before said that his mother lived in
a very pretty cottage ornee, about a mile and a half from the
parsonage. We were most kindly received by her. She first lovingly
embraced her son, wishing him many happy returns of the day, declaring
that he was much improved, &c. She then turned to me, and gracefully
and kindly bade me welcome. The niece was a charming girl, just budding
into womanhood. She blushed greatly in welcoming her cousin, and
bashfully did the same to me. We spent the earlier hours in
conversation; the mother having much to ask and to hear from her son,
from whom she had never before been separated. I had thus time to scan
her well. She was a fine, broad built, well standing up woman, with
broad shoulders, and hips that gave promise of good form beneath.
Without being beautiful, her face was a well formed oval, with really
fine eyes, to which her son's description had hardly done justice. It
appeared to me that a good deal of suppressed passion lurked in their
expression, and I already began to think she would be a real _bonne
bouche_ if once we could come to close quarters. After luncheon we
strolled in the garden. The leaves had already fallen, but the
afternoon was bright and warm for the end of November. I told young
Dale to keep close to his mother, and not show any wish to stray away
with his cousin--feeling certain that if she became anxious about their
movements I should have no chance to play off my little game. All went
as I could wish, we threw his mother off her guard, and she then began
to show closer attention to me. I acted the ingenuous and innocent
youth to perfection, but at the same time, in thinking of her charms, I
let my prick get up to half-stand, so as to show its large proportions
under my trousers. I very soon perceived that it had struck her notice,
and her attention became concentrated upon me. She questioned me a good
deal, and especially sought to find out if _peculiar_ intimacy existed
between her son and me. I played the innocent, and professed that the
utmost intimacy existed; but when she tried to find out if it had gone
to what she really meant, I gave such an innocent character to our
intimacy that she was quite convinced of my thorough ignorance of all
erotic tendencies, and she became more endearing in her manner of
addressing me.

Harry and I had previously agreed that after I addressed to him some
particular frivolous remark, he should seize the first occasion near a
shrubbery to go on more ahead, and alarm his mamma by turning round a
corner. Our stratagem succeeded. She immediately hastened to follow
them. As soon as she had turned the corner I drew out my tool, now at
full stand, and placed myself so that when she returned she should see
it fully developed, while I would take care not apparently to see her,
but be intent upon piddling. To the utmost of my wish it fell out. She
had told her son to stop and returned to join me. My eyes being turned
downwards did not let her become aware that I was watching for her, but
I could see the bottom of her petticoats as she turned the corner, and
also that she came to a sudden stop, which must have been at the moment
she caught sight of the noble proportions before her. I took care to
pass my hand once or twice backwards or forwards while pissing, and
then shook my prick deliberately, and exposed the whole length and
breadth of it for a minute or two before buttoning it up, during which
I could see she stood perfectly still, rooted to where she had first
stopped. After I had buttoned up, I stooped down, apparently to tie my
shoe, but in fact to give time for it to be supposed I had not seen her
previous approach. So when I rose up she was already at my side. There
was a flush on her cheek and a fire in her eye that showed the bait was
swallowed. My role was to play the perfect innocent, and appear quite
unconscious of her having seen me.

She took my arm, and I could feel that her hand trembled. She led me
along, hastily at first, until we joined her son and niece. After that
she became uncommonly endearing in her manner to me, making such
remarks as she thought would show her that I was not so innocent as I
looked, if my replies had jumped with her expectations. But I was in
reality too experienced not to pay her off in kind, and ended in making
her believe that she had a perfect virgin to deal with. We walked on,
she was evidently much preoccupied, becoming at times quite silent for
a minute or two, and then, gently pressing my arm, she would make some
endearingly flattering remark, at which I would look lovingly but
innocently up to her face to thank her for her kind opinion. On these
occasions her eyes sparkled in a peculiar manner, and her colour went
and came. After a while, her hand left my arm and rested on the
opposite shoulder, in a half embrace, which became warmer and warmer,
her conversation became more affectionate. She was profuse in her
congratulations that her son had found so charming a schoolfellow; and
here she halted, and turning half in front of me, said that she felt
that she could love me as if I were indeed her own dear son; and,
stooping slightly, she sought a kiss of maternal affection. I threw my
arms round her neck, and our lips met in a long and loving kiss--very
warm on her side, but a simple though affectionate kiss on mine.

"Oh!" I said, "how happy I shall be to call you my mamma, and I will
love you as if you were it, it is so good of you to allow me to do so.
This half-year has been the first time in my life that I ever was
separated from my mother--and, although my dear aunt is as kind as
possible to me, still I can't call her mamma. My guardian won't allow
me to go home for the Christmas holidays, but now I shall have a dear,
kind new mamma to make me happy." Here I again raised my lips for an
embrace, which was given with even more than the previous warmth. Her
arm had fallen to my waist, and she pressed me with energy to her
bosom, which I could feel was unexpectedly firm, and even hard. I had
great difficulty in keeping my unruly member down, that she might think
I took her warm embraces as nothing more than affectionate friendship.
I succeeded, however, and this, of course, more than ever convinced her
of my entire ignorance of carnal desires. As I closely embraced her,
and glued my lips to hers, she became greatly agitated, trembled
visibly, sighed convulsively, and then pushed me from her, and seemed
suddenly to recover herself, seized my arm, and hurried on after her
son. For, as may well be supposed she had purposely loitered behind to
allow them to get out of sight, before she indulged her uncontrollable
desire to embrace me. She spoke not a word until we came in sight of
them, apparently sauntering along, innocently enough. But Harry
afterwards told me that having seen how his mother had halted to gaze
at my prick, which he knew beforehand I meant she should see, he had
watched us through the shrubbery, and afterwards had noticed her warmth
of manner to me, and the loitering of her walk. He had turned a corner
some distance ahead of us, and was out of sight when his mother stopped
to embrace me, as described above. He guessed she would be in no hurry
to follow him. So rapidly advancing with his cousin, he got some way
before us, and choosing a place where he could see us through the
bushes when we did follow, he sat down on a garden seat, and drew his
cousin on his lap, asking her if she did not regret their hasty
separation after their last delicious interview, and telling her his
mother had seen them, which was the cause of his being sent as a
boarder to the doctor. She was much surprised to hear this, as her aunt
had never breathed a word of it to her; and she had been greatly
distressed at his being sent away from home. Of course his hands were
not idle; but first unbuttoning his trousers, he put his cock, now much
increased in size, into her hand. She at once observed how much larger
it had become, and began to caress it. He meanwhile was busy frigging
her little clitoris. He found that she was already quite moist, and he
had hardly frigged her a minute, when a sigh and an "Oh! how much more
pleasure you give me than my aunt does." She spent profusely, grasping
his prick with painful tenacity. Her breath was taken away for some
minutes. When she recovered a little, and was gazing lovingly with
half-closed eyes upon him, he at once recurred to her unexpected
confession.

"When does my mother do this to you?"

"Ever since you were sent away; your mother took me to sleep with her,
as she said, she felt so lonely after you left. For some time she used
to embrace me very lovingly, and hold me close pressed to her bosom. As
I always went to bed before her, I was generally sound asleep when she
joined me. I used at first to wonder how when I awoke in the early
morning my chemise was drawn up close to my neck, and your mother's was
in the same state, and our two naked bodies closely united by the
embracing arms of your mother. I even one morning found that my hand
was held by hers against that part which you are now feeling so nicely.
She had fallen asleep in this position, but I could feel that she was
as moist there as you have just made me. I could not help feeling it
was very nice, and gently removing her hand, I began to feel all over
her in that part and, do you know Harry, she is all covered with such
thick and curly hair there. In groping about, I felt the lips pouting
and thick, and on trying I found I could get my fingers in. I pushed
on, I got up to the knuckles, when I felt it give such a convulsive
pressure upon them, and her body was projected towards me with a heave
of her bottom, then drawn back, and pushed forward again, while her
arms pressed me closer to her, and she commenced some loving
expressions in her sleep. I felt something grow hard against my thumb,
it was just what you have been feeling.--'Oh! go on,' she cried."

"I renewed my tickling operations again, and I made her spend," Harry
continued. "As she came to her senses, I gamahuched her; I thrust my
tongue up her sweet little cunt, and licked up all the delicious
spendings. As I rose, with prick erect and standing stiff out of my
trousers, she seized it in her mouth, and, with very little sucking,
made me spend to excess, and the dear girl swallowed it with all the
luxury of the utmost voluptuousness. We had no time for more at that
moment, as I caught sight of mamma's dress through the trees. I
buttoned up hastily, and we strolled along, as if nothing had happened.
It was in our after-walk, when we had allayed mamma's suspicion, that
my dear Ellen continued her confessions."

The stiff thing pressing against her thumb was mamma's clitoris, which,
by her account, is wonderfully developed. She, knowing from her former
experience with me that it was the point of most exquisite enjoyment,
turned her finger upon it, and began awkwardly playing with it. It was
at this moment that the greater excitement awoke mamma, who finding to
her surprise what Ellen was doing, seized her hand, and pressing and
rubbing it with more art against her clitoris, continued its action
with exclamations of delight, declaring that Ellen was her dear
precious loved girl, and then with a positive cry of delight, spent
profusely over Ellen's hand. After panting for some time in perfect
bliss, she turned and took Ellen in her arms, kissing her most warmly,
and thrusting her tongue into Ellen's mouth, and then demanding hers in
return. After much embracing, mamma asked her how she came to do what
she found her doing when she awoke. Ellen described how she found her
hand held against it, and then two naked bodies pressed against each
other--that she was surprised at this, and wondered how it came so;
that on moving her hand she felt mamma give a throb down there, and a
push of her body forward, which made her finger slip easily in, this
still more surprised her, as she had tried often if her fingers could
get into her own, but it hurt her so much that she had given it up as
impossible; and now she had found one where all her fingers, up to the
knuckles, slipped in quite easily; the inside movements, and the
heavings of her aunt's body, showed that it gave her pleasure. In
continuing her movements she had felt a hard body at the upper part
pressing against the side of her hand; she withdrew her fingers to feel
this strange thing, and in doing so aunt awoke.

"And you know the rest, dear auntie, I was so glad that I had given you
so much pleasure."

"Dear, dear girl!" her aunt replied, "I shall love you more dearly than
ever; yes, and you, too, shall have the utmost pleasure. I have long
wished to initiate you into the secrets of womanhood, but thought you
too young to be able to keep secret such intimacy as we may indulge in.
Often in your sleep with your lovely naked charms exposed to me, and
pressed against my own lascivious person, have I enjoyed you, and even
made use of your own hand all unconscious in sleep, to excite me to a
still greater pitch; last night I had enjoyed you to the utmost,
kissing your lovely budding and hidden charms, and must have
unconsciously dropped off to sleep with my hand still pressing yours
against my secret charm. But now I must initiate you into the same
joys, even in a more exquisite way."

"Upon this she begged me to throw off my chemise, while she did the
same. We stood up to do this, and your mother took the opportunity to
pose me in every way, admiring and kissing me all over. I did the same
to her, and I can assure you, dear Harry, your mother is far better
made that I am, both in the bosom and the bottom, and with such firm
thighs and legs, and her affair is so well developed and pouting, and
with such silky curls all around it. I can feel you passing your
fingers through the curls of mine; but though it has more than it had
when last you felt and caressed it, it is nothing to dear auntie's.
When she had much excited me, and was evidently herself greatly so, she
desired me to lie across the bed on my back, and to draw my knees up so
as to let my feet rest on the edge. She then placed a footstool in
front, and kneeling upon it, after first feeling and caressing me down
there, she glued her lips to it, and after sucking a while began to
play with her tongue upon what you have been so deliciously rubbing.
She licked me most exquisitely, and soon made me die away in ecstasy of
delight. She sucked it for some time after, while I lay in a languid
state of joy. When at last she rose, she threw herself on the bed, and
our two naked bodies became closely united in the most loving embrace.
Her lips were wet with the moisture that had escaped from me, its
peculiar aromatic odour _m'enivrait_ and I could not help licking the
creamy juice from off her lips.

"'Oh, my beloved aunt,' I cried, 'you have given me the joy of
paradise, I must try and do as much for you.'

"'My darling Ellen, you will make me positively adore you. I now only
regret that I had not sooner taken you into my confidence, as I at once
perceive I might have done so in perfect safety. Yes, my darling, you
shall indeed try, and I shall instruct you as we advance how to obtain
the greatest amount of pleasure from our libidinous and lascivious
enjoyments, delights that are without risk, and from which we shall
have no anxieties as to fatal results, which are the consequence of
connection with the opposite sex, who only make use of us for their own
sensual enjoyment, and abandon us at the very moment they ought to
console and cherish us the most.'

"Dear aunt, again embracing me tenderly, threw herself in the same
position I had previously lay in. I knelt on the cushion as she had
done. But before proceeding to do as she had done to me, I could not
help pausing to gaze with delight on her natural charms. Oh! dear
Harry, you cannot imagine the beauty of that part of your mamma. Her
stomach is of the purest white, smooth and firm, round and beautiful.
Below a crease commences a large plumped out swelling seen through the
fair and thick silky curls that so much adorn it, then grandly rounded
sinks down between her thighs, and the beautifully pouting lips rise
richly tempting through the thickest of hair, that goes far beyond
between the large rounded orbs that project behind. At the upper part
of the lips, where they form a deep indented half-circle, I could
distinguish a stiff projecting object, as long and thicker than my
thumb. I now know that this is the centre of exquisite joy. Your mother
had since taught me to call it her clitoris, and says that although
seldom so strongly developed as in her case, it exists in every woman
and becomes stiff and excited as the final crisis of joy approaches. I
glued my lips around this charming object, and sucked it, and played
with my tongue around its point. Your mother, in an ecstasy of delight,
wriggled her bottom below me, and with both hands pressing my head down
on the excited point, gave utterance to the most loving and sensual
expressions. She begged me to pass the flat of my hand under my chin,
and introduce my thumb within the lips below, where I was sucking, and
move it backwards and forwards as much as I could. I did so, and
immediately found that it added greatly to your mother's delight.
Faster and faster grew her movements, until, with a cry of delight, a
firm pressure of my hand against her affair, and still firmer pressure
on my thumb, she suddenly ceased all movement, her hands relaxed their
hold of my head, the stiffness left her clitoris, and beyond convulsive
graspings of the interior of her affair upon my thumb, she lay for some
time inanimate. At last she recovered her senses, she seized me under
the arms, and drew me upon her belly, her hands pressed my bottom down
close upon her person, until I found that my affair was nestled in the
rich profusion of curls that so finely adorned hers. She thrust her
tongue into my mouth, and sucked off all the rich creamy substance that
had flowed from her in such abundance. She blessed the happy chance
that had led her to give me her confidence; told me that for long she
had only enjoyed the unsatisfactory delight of lonely
self-gratification, and said that now we should revel in mutual delight
of every sensual indulgence that woman can have with woman. We lay for
some time enjoying such delicious communings, until compelled to rise
by the lateness of the hour. We have since practised every method of
enjoyment given to two of the same sex. Your mother has often
introduced her stiff excited clitoris within the lips of my affair as
far as it would go, but I have always longed, my dear Harry, for you to
penetrate still further with that larger and longer thing you have got,
although what I have seen to-day of its increased size has made me
greatly fear it can never get in."

Thus ended her ingenuous description. Harry, of course, promised that
he would never hurt her, that those parts were made to yield, that,
doubtless, his mother's large clitoris had hurt her at first, but had
given her great pleasure afterwards.

Yes, that was so, and it was that that gave her courage, and if they
could only get the opportunity she would allow him to do anything he
pleased.

It may well be supposed this account of Ellen's intercourse with her
aunt fired my imagination and made me resolve to have her. Indeed, I
began to conceive that there would be no occasion for me to make any
effort, that all would be done by dear mamma herself. We had returned
to the house after this agitated walk. Mamma was evidently greatly
preoccupied, but at length she appeared to have come to a final
determination, for she told Ellen to go up to her room, and begged us
two boys, as she called us, to go out and amuse ourselves for an hour.
It was during this interval that Harry narrated his interesting
conversation with his cousin. Her lively description had set his
imagination on fire, and he now declared his regret that it was not to
be he who would enjoy his lasciviously sensual mother. Neither of us
had any doubt but that she would now find an opportunity of enjoying
me. If we had, our doubts were solved on re-entering the house. Mamma
first, for form's sake, kissing her son, and then far more warmly
kissing me, informed us that she had written to the doctor that we had
been such good boys that she would feel greatly obliged if he would
allow her son to remain with her until Monday, and also leave his
nephew to keep him company and prevent any of his former misbehaviour
which, she was happy to say, he appeared to have forgotten, but still
it would be better he should have the safeguard of so intelligent and
discreet a friend as she was glad to see he had found in the doctor's
nephew. My uncle, without knowing exactly what to make of this note,
had consented. Hence her joy in being able to communicate the pleasing
intelligence--doubly so to me, as I immediately augured the downfall of
my assumed virginity. Dear mamma was all radiant with joy, and conveyed
me at once to where she intended I should sleep. I marked that it was
in an out of the way room, easy of access, but not likely to be
interfered with by passers-by.

"And here, my dear son, for you know in future you are always to call
me mamma, I hope you will find yourself comfortable, and that you will
not be alarmed because you are in an out of the way part of the house,
but in case you should, before I go to bed, I shall come to see that
you are comfortably asleep."

Here she kissed and embraced me warmly. I repaid her most
affectionately, but apparently in all innocence. She sighed, as I
thought with regret, that she could not at that moment go further, and
then led me away.

The afternoon, the dinner, and the evening passed away without anything
worthy of remark, except that mamma was frequently absent and
preoccupied. She sat by me on the sofa while Ellen played to us; her
hand sought mine, and frequently squeezed it affectionately. Harry sat
by Ellen, which enabled me often to raise my head and pout my lips for
a kiss in a boyish way. It was never refused. She dwelt on my mouth
sensuously with half-opened lips, but apparently afraid to tip me the
velvet of her tongue. She frequently gave a shudder and trembled, and
was evidently greatly excited. In the course of the afternoon, Harry
and I had had an opportunity of exchanging ideas. I told him I was
certain his mother would come to me that night, and he might be sure if
she did that she would remain till daylight. I advised him to watch
her, and when he saw her leave her bedroom to come to me, then he could
slip into his cousin's room, and effect his purpose, but to be sure to
retire at the first dawn. I said that if that time his mother wanted to
leave me, I would keep her another quarter of an hour to enable him to
put matters to rights with his cousin, and regain his own room. I
advised him also to put a towel under his cousin's bottom, as he was
sure to make her bleed, and he must take it away in the morning to
prevent any traces of what he had done being perceived by his mother,
and to tell Ellen to feign deep sleep on his mother's return, and to
appear quite unconscious in the morning of her aunt having been absent.
A little before ten o'clock mamma thought it time for her children, as
she called us, to go to bed. Her son and niece both kissed her, and I,
too, claimed a kiss of my new mamma. It was taken and returned in quite
a passionate way, her lips seemed loath to leave mine, and her arms
encircled me in a very loving embrace. "Dear mamma," I said, "I shall
love you ever dearly."

"My darling boy, I already love you as if you were indeed my son."

She sent the others to their bedrooms, but escorted me herself to mine.
I could see that she trembled greatly, and was evidently glad to put
down the candlestick. She turned down the bedclothes for me, hoped I
would sleep well, and, with considerable agitation, again embraced me
most passionately. I could feel that her tongue would fain have thrust
itself between my lips. I had great difficulty in restraining myself,
but somehow I managed to do so. She at last left me, saying she would
give a look in to see that I was comfortable before she herself went to
bed. I told her it was very kind of her, but that there was no
necessity for her doing so, as I always went to sleep like a top the
moment I lay down.

"I am glad of that, my dear child, but nevertheless I will look in,
lest the strange bed should prevent your sleeping."

And again she hugged me passionately against her firm and well-formed
bosom, kissing me with a long, long kiss. Quitting me with a deep sigh,
at last she said good night, and shut the door, apparently going away.
But I fancied that she stopped short, and that I could hear her gently
stealing back, probably in the hope of seeing me undress, and of
catching a view of my huge pego. So I determined she should have her
curiosity indulged. I hurried off my clothes, and before putting on one
of Harry's night-shirts, which had been laid on the bed for me, I took
up the chamber pot, and turned fronting the key hole, stark naked, and
cock in hand. It was at half-cock, but when I had piddled I made it
throb and raise its head, and gave it a rub or two, and a shake very
deliberately, so that she might be still more bent on possessing it. I
took up the night-shirt, and turning to the light, was very awkward in
getting it on, so as to give time for a good sight of my prick at full
stand against my belly. I then blew out the light, and tumbled into bed
very quickly. I listened attentively, and could hear a deep
half-suppressed sigh, and then footsteps stealing quietly away. I lay
awake cogitating as to how I should receive her, whether to feign
profound sleep, and so let her take all the initiative, or whether to
pretend that the novelty of the bed, and thinking over her affectionate
kindness to me had kept me awake. I decided upon pretending to be sound
asleep, chiefly that I might see how she would carry out her designs,
and also as allowing me to play the surprised one.

In little more than half an hour after all had retired to rest I saw
the glimmer of light through the key hole. I had studied a pose that
would facilitate matters. I lay on my back, the clothes partially
thrown off my breast, and the hand next to the side on which she must
approach, placed above my head. Of course my cock was at full stand and
as I had thrown off the heavy counterpane, it easily lifted up, and
bulged out the sheet and light blanket. I closed my eyes, and breathed
heavily. The door was gently opened, and she entered. She turned to
close it, and I gave a peep through a half-opened eye, and saw that she
had only on a loose _robe de chambre_, which was thrown open in
turning, so that I could see there was nothing but her shift below. I
even caught sight of her beautiful bosom, which at once caused my prick
to throb almost to bursting, so that when she came to my side, it stood
up most manfully. She paused, evidently intent on the sight. She then
held the light towards me, and spoke in an undertone, asking me if I
was awake. Of course I only breathed the heavier, and lay with my mouth
half open, as if in the very deepest first slumber. She then turned her
attention to the bulging-out substance, and ventured to touch it
gently; then, growing bolder, she still more gently grasped it from
above the clothes, and then turned the light on my face, but I gave not
a sign. She then put the candle down, and, taking a chair, sat down
close to the bed. Here she again spoke to me in a subdued tone. Finding
no cessation of the deep breathing, she gently insinuated her hand
below the already favourably turned-down bedclothes, and with great
care slipped it down to my prick, which she grasped softly. I could now
feel her whole body tremble, her breath came fast and short. She passed
her hand gently up from the root to the head, its size evidently
greatly exciting her. When she grasped the head, it gave a powerful
throb. She eased her hand, and, I felt certain, turned to see if it had
disturbed me. But I slept on profoundly. She seemed to gain more
confidence, for both hands were now applied, and it was evident she had
assumed a kneeling posture, the better to favour her designs. I could
feel her pass one hand over the other, until she found the head was
still partially above the third grasp. I heard her give an involuntary
exclamation of surprise at its size. Her curiosity growing by what it
fed on, she now commenced with the utmost caution gently to remove the
bed-clothes, that she might see, as well as feel. When this was
accomplished, she rose and brought the light, again passed it before my
eyes, and then moved it down towards my prick. Being sure she was now
far too deeply engaged to turn her eyes towards mine, I half opened
them, and beheld her bending close over the great object of attraction.
I heard her exclaim half aloud--

"How wonderful! I never could have imagined such a thing, and in such
an innocent boy, too. Oh! I must possess-yes--I must possess it."

Here she grasped it more forcibly than before. Then, rising, she put
the candle on the pot stand, which she removed to the foot of the bed.
Then taking my prick in both hands, she gently rubbed it up and down,
and even stooped and fondly kissed the nut. It throbbed more violently
than ever at this, and I thought it time to start, and appear to awake.
She instantly quitted her hold of it, and stood up, but was too
agitated to think of covering me. I opened my eyes in apparent great
surprise, but recognising mamma, I said--

"Oh! is that you, dear mamma? I was dreaming such a nice dream about
you. Oh, do kiss me," purposely not seeming to know that my person was
all naked.

She stooped and kissed me tenderly, saying--

"My dear, darling boy. I came to see if you were comfortable, and found
you lying uncovered, and with this extraordinary thing sticking up."

She had seized it with her left hand, as she stooped to kiss me. On the
instant, I determined to play off the same game that had succeeded so
well with my aunt.

"My dear mamma, I should not have dared to speak to you about _that_,
but it does give me much pain, by becoming so hard that it throbs, as
you may feel, at the least touch. I don't know what to do; and it makes
me feel so queer too, especially at the gentle pressures you have just
given it; dear mamma, can you tell me how I can cure it, and I will
love you so dearly."

Here she stooped and kissed me very luxuriously, actually thrusting her
tongue into my mouth. I sucked it, and told her how sweet it was. But
my prick becoming perfectly outrageous, I implored her to tell me what
I could do to relieve it. She looked at me long and intently, blushing
and turning pale by turns.

"Yes, my dear boy, I could relieve you, but it is a secret that I
hardly dare confide in one so young."

"Oh! you may trust me, my dear mamma, you know I am becoming a young
man, and men must know how to keep secrets, or they would be despised,
besides, so dear and loving a mamma as you are to me would doubly make
me keep secret anything you confide to me on those terms."

"I will trust you, my darling boy, but you will at once see by what I
shall do, how completely I sacrifice myself to do you good."

Upon this, she threw off her robe, and sprang into bed by my side.

"Oh! how nice of you, dear mamma," said I, as I took her in my arms,
and kissed her lovingly. "Feel, mamma, how much harder it is, so tell
me at once how I am to relieve it."

"Well, my dear child, we women are made to relieve such stiffnesses as
this; we possess a sheath to put it in, and then it gradually softens."

"Oh! where--where--dearest mamma, do tell me?"

She took my hand and put it down on her cunt, already quite wet with
the excitement she had been in.

"There, feel that, do you not find an opening?"

"Oh, yes, but how am I to get in there--won't it hurt you?"

"I will show you."

She turned on her back, opened her legs, and desired me to mount on her
belly, with my legs between hers, then guiding my rampant pego, and
rubbing its great head up and down the lips to moisten it, she told me
to push gently downwards, for it was so large that I would otherwise
hurt her. Playing the novice to perfection, I awkwardly but gently soon
thrust it in, up to the codpiece. She uttered an "Oh! oh!" when it was
fairly hilted; then throwing her legs over my loins, and her arms round
my waist, she begged me to move my bottom backwards and forwards,
always thrusting it in as far as I could. Three or four pushes finished
me off, in the great excitement I was under. She, too, died away with a
great convulsive sigh. I took care to cry out--

"Oh! my dear mamma--oh! stop. I am dying--I--I--am dy--dy--ing."

Her convulsive internal pressures were delicious, and quickly roused my
prick up again. She also had come to, and had glued her lips to
mine--giving her own, and then asking in return for my tongue to suck.

"Oh! what heavenly joys, my dear mamma, you did, indeed, reduce its
hardness, but just feel--it has got hard again, you must reduce it once
more."

"My beloved boy, I shall always be ready to do so, but it must be the
most sacred secret between us, or I should never be able to do it
again."

You may well suppose my protestations were of the strongest. At it we
went again, and again, and again. Mamma declared that I was a most apt
scholar. Four times did I pour into her foaming and fiery cunt torrents
of sperm. At last she insisted upon my withdrawing, saying it would
injure my health to indulge any more. So I withdrew, and we embraced
each other most lovingly. I now expressed a wish to see the wonderful
place that had given me the ecstasies of paradise. She lent herself
with admirable grace and ease to my boyish curiosity, and even threw
off her shift, making me do the same, that she too might admire the
undisguised beauties of my form. There was no pretence in the great
admiration I expressed for her really superb form, but I expressed it
in a naive and innocent way, that made her laugh heartily, and
confirmed her idea that she was not only the first naked woman I had
seen, but that she was the first I ever knew, or who had taught me what
sensual pleasure meant, and great was her delight in thinking she had
taken my virginity, and been the first to initiate me in love's
delightful mysteries. Of course, I did everything I could in order to
carry on the deception she was so much pleased with, and I may add this
was the last time I ever did so, for daily becoming more of a man, I
took _things_ by the forelock at once, and rarely failed to succeed. We
got up, and she turned herself round in every way for me to see the
rare beauties of her person--herself explaining to me where she was
well made-bosom, buttocks, belly so white and smooth, without a
wrinkle, although she had had a son. She was, indeed, one of those rare
cases where nothing remains to tell of such an event. Her bosom,
without being so large as aunt's, was gloriously white and firm, with
such pink nipples, larger than in a maid, but sticking out hard and
inviting a suck. Then her cunt--for she laid herself on her back,
opened her legs, and allowed me the closest inspection. I have already
alluded to her clitoris, as described by Ellen to Harry; it was
charmingly developed, about half the length of Miss Frankland's, and
not so thick. As I felt her cunt and introduced my fingers to hold it
open, she got excited, and Master Clitoris raised his head, and came
out of his corner in full stand. I professed great surprise to find she
had a little doodle of her own. I purposely used the boyish expression.
I began to play with it.

"Oh!" I said, "I must kiss it."

I did so, and began to suck it. She got dreadfully lewd, and seizing
upon my now-again-standing prick, drew me upon her, and introduced once
more my master weapon. With greater slowness until the final crisis
drew near, we had another delicious fuck. She was a woman of very warm
passions, and the long pent-up seclusion she had kept herself in with
regard to our sex being once broken, now that the flood-gates were
opened, there was no resisting the torrent of her lascivious passions.
Twice again did we fuck without withdrawing. Then, after hugging and
thanking me for the ecstasies I threw her into, she rose for a natural
purpose, and advised me to do the same, and we would then both lave
ourselves with cold water to restore our nerves. She laved me and I
her. She then insisted on my lying down on my back, while she admired
what she called the masterpiece of Nature. From seeing and feeling, she
soon came to sucking. Up he got in a moment. Playing the ignoramus, I
asked if it was not possible that we could both enjoy that pleasure at
once.

"Oh, yes, my dear boy. I am so delighted to find that this pleases you!
Lie on your back, I shall get over you in the reverse way, and while I
suck this enormous jewel, whose head I can hardly get into my mouth,
you shall do as you like with my notch."

"Is that what you call it, dear mamma?"

"That is one name, and it has many others, but you men generally call
it cunt, as we call yours prick, it is just as well you should know
their ordinary names, as children only call them Fanny and Doodle."

"Prick and cunt--oh! I shan't forget, so let me have that beautiful
cunt to suck."

We had a mutual gamahuche, and both greedily swallowed the double
result, and continued our caresses of both parts, until they were again
in full vigour, and inspired with a desire for more solid enjoyments.

"My darling boy, you are so apt and excellent a scholar that I must
show you there are several ways of allaying the stiffness of this dear
fellow, who seems as desirous as ever to have his hardness taken out of
him. I shall show you how my husband liked best to enjoy me."

She scrambled up on her knees, and presented her very fine bottom, told
me to kneel behind and give her my prick in her hand, which she thrust
out backwards between her thighs. I did so. She told me it would appear
to get further in this way, and, in fact, it did. After it was all in
until thighs and buttocks met, she told me to admire, praise, and
handle the splendid cheeks of her bottom, and said that such praise
greatly excited her. Of course I did so, admiring not only their size
and fairness, but also the beautiful curly silk meshes that ran between
the cheeks, covered her beautifully pink bottom-hole, charmingly
puckered as it was, and ran up to the flat of her back. After I had so
excited her, she begged me to lean forward, and to handle one bubby
while I should play with her clitoris with the other hand. I did all
this tolerably well, but with somewhat of awkwardness. She said I would
soon be perfect. We ran again two courses before she fell forward
dragging me down without withdrawing, and then turning on our sides,
still intertwined we fell off into a deep slumber, and did not awaken
till daylight. Mamma jumped out of bed, unseating me by the act. She
was alarmed lest the hour should be late enough for the household to be
up. I tried hard to persuade her to reduce once more the hardness which
had again seized me as she might see and feel for herself.

"No, my dear boy, we must not be imprudent, my niece may have awakened
and grown anxious at my absence, and she may rise to seek me; so
good-bye, my darling, go to sleep again."

She embraced me tenderly, but I could not prevail upon her to go
further, although she promised to seek an opportunity during the day,
and to give me as much as I liked the next night. She left me, and I
pondered over the lucky chance that had put so desirable and fine a
woman into my arms, and also congratulated myself on the stratagem by
which I had fully convinced her that she was my first instructress in
the art of love, a circumstance ever dear to the ardent imagination of
the darling sex. I easily fell asleep again, wondering how Harry in the
meantime had got on with his cousin. My dear mamma would not allow me
to be disturbed. She had entered my room once or twice, and found me
sleeping soundly.

At last she again entered, just as I had satisfied a natural want for
which I had risen. To rush to her, to embrace her tenderly, to fasten
the door, and compel her, not much against her will, to come towards
the bed, to beg her to lie on her belly on the bedside, to cant her
petticoats up, to kneel and gamahuche her cunt from behind until she
begged me to rise and fuck her, was but the work of a minute or two.
And then my stiff-standing pego, aided by the mouthful of thick saliva
occasioned by the gamahuche, was directed at her cunt, and driven home
as far as the buttocks or her fine backside would allow. My prick being
fairly sheathed, I paused for a moment to handle and praise the beauty
of her posterior orbs. Then, stooping, I nibbled at her bubbles with
one hand, and frigged her clitoris with the other. Sharp set, with my
long rest and refreshing sleep, I rapidly ran a first course, but not
quicker than the lascivious nature of dear mamma, who joined me in a
copious discharge with the most ecstatic joy, and the most delicious
inward pressures. For she was a perfect and most accomplished actor in
the combats of love, and in her own way was worthy of my glorious aunt
and my loved Miss Frankland, and as thoroughly accomplished as they in
all the abandon of lust and lubricity, although at the moment I had
only proved things in an ordinary way. Her exquisite internal suctions
almost prevented the slightest relaxation in my delighted pego, and
after a minute or two of indulgence in the after joy, I began again
almost before dear mamma had recovered her senses, when she tried to
tear herself away. But before she knew where she was I had succeeded in
again firing her ardent and lascivious nature, and she became as eager
for a second course as myself. This was naturally longer than the first
fiery one. I raised myself upright on my knees, contemplated with the
utmost delight the uncommon active play of her loins, and the exquisite
side wriggling of her very fine backside. I loudly praised her
delicious manoeuvres, and seconded them to the utmost, until getting
more and more excited, fast and furious grew our movements. I bent down
to second her by frigging her clitoris, and the final crisis seized us
both with its agony of joy, and I sank almost insensible on her back.
We lay for a short time lost to every thing, until mamma, remembering
the risk we ran of discovery, begged me to withdraw, and let her go
away. She rose and threw herself into my arms, glueing her lips to mine
with a most loving kiss. Then stooping, she gave my now pendant prick a
most delicious suck, making her tongue play into and around the mouth
of the urethra. This was so delicious that the delighted member
instantly showed its appreciation of the pleasure by starting up in
full swing. Mamma gave it a pat, and said he was a most charming and
delicious boy, who did not know how to behave himself. Again she kissed
me, and tore herself away, but I could easily see the regret was as
great on her side as mine. She told me her son had been as lazy as I
was, and said that breakfast was waiting for us both. I quickly
finished my toilet and found them all at the breakfast table.

Ellen blushed deeply when she saw me. A glance from Harry assured me he
had succeeded, and that Ellen not only knew what I had been about, but
also that I knew what she had been doing. Hence her high colour when
she saw me. I smiled, and nodded to her knowingly, and as she had
observed the intelligent glance that passed between Harry and me, it
did not tend to put her at her ease.

Mamma, of course, knew nothing of what had passed in her bed while she
was with me, and was all affectionate attention to the whole party, but
with a marked tendency to pay me more particular attention. Our
breakfast was late, so we had to hurry ourselves for church. Mamma
drove Ellen in a small pony phaeton, while Harry and I took a short cut
across the fields.

Harry told me how he had watched his mother and had quietly approached
my door, and as the bed was exactly opposite the key hole, had seen and
enjoyed her proceedings, especially as he knew that I only pretended
sleep.

"By Jove," he said, "what a fine woman mother is! I could not tear
myself away, and remained until you both went at it again, stark naked.
My mother's beautiful hairy cunt, fine bubbies and backside, nearly
drove me mad with desire. I could have violated her if she had been
alone. And, then, her energy in fucking was superb. I could hold out no
longer, but rushed to dear Ellen's side. She was asleep. I took her in
my arms, and awoke her by feeling her delicious young cunt. She opened
her eyes, and thinking it was mamma she turned round to repay the
compliment, and started on having hold of my pego."

"'Why! Harry dear, how came you here? We shall be caught by mamma.'

"'Oh, no, my love, mamma is better engaged, and has slipped away to
Charlie's room to get done to her what I am going to do to you.'

"She was too much alarmed to believe me, and I was obliged to bring her
to your door. I first peeped, and saw you were still at it. Mamma's
legs and arms thrown around you allowed me to see your great big thing
rushing in and out, and driving home with immense vigour. I whispered
to Ellen to peep. While she did so, stooping, I sat down on the floor
and gamahuched her. She spent almost immediately, and was so excited
that it quite filled my mouth. I rose on my legs, and bringing my prick
against her cunt, made an entrance as far as over the nut, but was
myself so excited with all I was doing, and all I had previously seen,
that I went off in an agony of delight and with a suppressed cry, which
must have been heard by you and mamma if you had not been so busily
engaged. Ellen had been so excited and so intent on the to her new
scene enacting before her eyes, that she had never ceased gazing on it,
and left me to do whatever I pleased, but my cry alarmed her,
especially as in my last forward push I had sent her head with some
noise against the door. She rose, and so unseated me from the slight
hold I had got of her cunt. She turned round to embrace me most
excitedly, and whispered that we must go elsewhere. I took her round
the waist, and we quickly regained mamma's bed. The light enabled me to
find a towel. I told Ellen it was to prevent any moisture betraying our
acts. She was far too excited and wishful for the article to make the
slightest resistance, or even pretence of refusal. I begged her to
throw off her shift, as she had seen both Charlie and mamma were quite
naked. She at once complied, being now as eager for the fray as myself.
I, too, threw off my night-shirt. For a moment we embraced each other's
naked bodies. My cock was as stiff as iron. She lewdly laid hold of it,
while I handled her charming young cunt. I helped her onto the bed, she
at once lay down on her back, and threw open her legs as she had seen
mamma do. I stopped and gave her cunt, all oozing with her own and my
spunk, a warm kiss, and with a lick or two on her budding clitoris, I
fired her even to greater excess than she had yet been in.

"'Oh, come to my arms, my dear Harry, and let us do as they were so
delightedly doing.'

"She had noted with what rapture mamma was enjoying you, and she had
noted, too, what a much larger cock yours was than mine; so she had
naturally reasoned that if one so big gave her aunt so much delight, my
smaller one could not possibly hurt her, hence her eagerness to have me
at once. I did not baulk her, but throwing myself between her
widespread thighs, I soon brought the point of my prick to the longing
lips of her little virgin cunt. I rubbed it up and down in between the
pouting and self-opened lips, partly to moisten it, and partly to still
more excite her lust. I then gently pressed it forward, and introduced
just its head, and drawing it in and out, made her beg me to go
further. I did so, slowly, until I found there was an impediment. I
knew that I must burst through this and that it would hurt her, so I
continued withdrawing and re-entering without going further until she
became so voraciously lewd as to throw her legs around my loins and
heave her bottom up to meet my thrusts. I seized the fortunate moment
and with one downright violent thrust burst through every barrier and
buried my prick in her up to the very hilt. The attack and its result
was so unexpected by Ellen that when she felt the knife-like thrust of
agony she gave a shriek of pain, and made an immediate effort to throw
me off. I was too firmly seated for any other result of her struggles
than the still more complete rupture of her maidenhead, which my
forward thrust had partially effected. I lay for some time quite
tranquil, and when her immediate pain wore off I commenced a gentle in
and out movement, which, without exactly exciting her, produced a
pleasing sensation. I then went on faster and faster until the crisis
came upon me, and I shot into her a torrent of boiling sperm that by
its balmy nature mollified the previous smarting; so that when I had
recovered from the delicious ecstasies of my first success, and my
prick gradually resumed its former vigour, I found by the somewhat
increased pressure upon it that her passions were re-awakening. Three
times did I fuck her before I withdrew, the last one appeared to give
her more pleasure, but still she complained of a smarting pain as I
passed over and over the shattered hymen. I advised her to rise and
lave herself as a relief, and to wash away the stains of blood from her
thighs. The towel was a fortunate thought on your part, but, in fact, I
had followed in all my movements the sage counsels you had given me
from the experience you had had in taking the virginities of Mrs.
Vincent and your two sisters, or I should otherwise probably have
bungled the matter, although my experience with your magnificent aunt
had naturally put me up to all the art of fucking. I had some
difficulty in persuading Ellen to let me put it in again, as she
declared she had endured perfect agony when I broke through her
maidenhead. However, I gamahuched her well, got her passions up,
moistened the shaft well, and was very gentle in entering and in my
first movements. I spent without making her do so. But the well-greased
sheath now allowing more easy movements, she gave down her nature with
considerable pleasure as I spent the second time. Still there was fear
and restraint--fear lest mamma might come back--so I thought it
advisable to retire to my own room, being quite certain that now the
road is open her lascivious nature will not be long in enabling her to
enjoy the sport to the utmost. By the way, she could not help wondering
how mamma could take in your immense pego; why, she said, it was as
thick as her wrist and much longer than her hand, and yet it seemed to
slip into mamma with ease and pleasure, 'while yours, dear Harry, which
is not thicker than my two forefingers, and hardly much longer, has
given me such pain.' I assured her it was only for the first night, and
that if she would bathe it with warm water two or three times during
the day, and put up a little glycerine as far as where it hurt, which
her finger could easily reach, she would find that to-morrow night
there would no longer be any pain felt, and she would enjoy it as much
as she had seen mamma do. With this advice I left her to her repose,
and gained my own room unobserved."

After this we concerted together as to what we should say to the
doctor, who was sure to question us. Mrs. Dale's cottage was not in our
parish, but she had driven over to our church, partly to throw off all
suspicion from the doctor's mind, and also to thank him for allowing us
to stay with her.

We, therefore, knew that we should have to go to the rectory and stay
for luncheon. We agreed that we should not on this occasion take the
doctor into our confidence, but that we should tell him we had
purposely been very quiet and discreet, so as to throw Harry's mother
off her guard. That Ellen slept with her, so that it became doubly
necessary to gain her confidence. This being arranged before we reached
church, we entered. After service we all adjourned to the rectory. The
doctor escorted Mrs. Dale, Harry, Ellen, and I my aunt. Aunt, pressing
my arm, asked me if I had had Mrs. D., as she seemed a fine woman worth
having.

"Oh, dear no. I have had no opportunity, even if she would have
consented. I have been playing the ingenuous youth to help Harry with
his cousin. I thought we had somewhat thrown her off her guard, but she
was still jealous and watched him closely. Ellen slept with her, which
rendered things more difficult for Harry. She has closely examined me
as to the sort of intimacy existing between us. I threw such an air of
candour and innocence over my replies that she was quite delighted
Harry had met with such a companion. I fully expect she will break out
in praises of my _modest_ and discreet conduct."

Indeed, so it turned out, and Mrs. Dale did it with such an air of
candour that aunt was quite convinced nothing as yet had occurred
between us. While the ladies discussed the dresses and bonnets of all
who had appeared in church, uncle took Harry and me for a walk in the
garden until luncheon was ready. Here he began, as aunt had done, to
question us as to our proceedings, and the reason for Mrs. D. asking
permission for us to stay. The same replies that had satisfied aunt
satisfied him that nothing as yet had taken place beyond my gaining the
confidence of Mrs. D.

"My dear Charlie," said uncle, "you have only now to manage somehow or
other to let her see your great big cock without apparently your being
aware of it, and I will warrant, from my knowledge of woman's nature,
that she will find a way to have you, only mind you play the innocent,
and be very awkward, and let her appear to teach you, which will give
double pleasure and prevent any questioning as to how you have gained
your instruction, if she thought you instructed."

I smiled inwardly at these sage directions, and thought how completely
all persons knowing in the ways of the world gave the same advice. But
little did uncle then think that I had acted up to the very letter what
he was advising for my future conduct. We re-entered the house on
luncheon bell ringing. Mrs. Dale complimented the doctor on the advance
her son had made both in manners and instruction, and quite naturally
congratulated herself on his finding so very modest and gentlemanly a
companion in the doctor's nephew--myself to wit.

Returning home, Ellen begged she might be allowed to walk, doubtless
calculating on having Harry for a companion. But mamma, while agreeing
to her request, was still sufficiently on her guard to take Harry in
the phaeton, and leave me to escort Ellen. Here was a chance! Ellen
blushed, but took my arm as we left the rectory. Uncle gave me a
knowing look, and a glance at Ellen, as we parted, as much as to say, I
guess what will happen. We walked away steadily enough until the first
hedge hid us. I stopped, and embraced Ellen tenderly, saying how glad I
was to be able to congratulate her on the happy chance her aunt had
given her, by coming to me for the night. She was a good deal confused
at thinking that I should know how she passed the night. I rallied her
upon this, told her that no secret existed between Harry and me, and
that, in fact, if I had not lent myself to the game, she would not have
had the opportunity for the great pleasure she must have had in Harry's
arms. I knew she had not had much, but I wished to draw her on, and to
make her open out as to her feelings, being determined to make the most
of any confidence on her part. She replied that, indeed, she had done
nothing but suffer, and would not have allowed Harry to do what he did
if she had known the pain it would give her, she had been deceived by
seeing how much aunt had seemed to enjoy what was so greatly superior
in size to what Harry had. I smiled at her allusion to the size of my
pego, and knowing that her curiosity must be creating in her a desire
to see it, I told her it was well for her, in the first instance, to
have had the smaller weapon to penetrate her, and that now she would
never again suffer, even by the introduction of so large a one as mine.

"Oh, but when I think of the immense size of yours, I could never dare
to allow you to try, although aunt did seem to enjoy it, when you
pushed it in with such force."

"My dear Ellen, it was the size alone that tempted mamma, and if I had
not been larger than Harry, I doubt if ever she would have come to me
at night."

"But how could she dare to do so?"

"Curiosity to enjoy an unusually large cock, my dear."

"Did you know she was coming?"

"Yes, and no. I saw that her passions were excited, when I had once
_accidentally_ allowed her to see my large proportions."

"Yes, Harry told me what you were about, but I hardly expected aunt
would have dared to come to you--how did it happen?"

"Well, if you will promise _never_ to let your aunt know that I have
told, I shall tell you. She came and found me _apparently_ asleep,
first felt me, and seeing I did not awake, carefully uncovered me,
looked at, handled and kissed it, upon which, as my cock was nearly
bursting, and I could stand it no longer, I awoke, and innocently
complained of the stiffness I suffered from in that part, and begged
her to tell me if there was any means of relieving it. She told me
there was, but it was a great secret she hardly dared trust me
with--and even if she could do so, she was afraid of a great long thing
like _that_, three of her hands long below the head! but that if I
promised secrecy, she would try. Then she lay down and taught me how to
put it in, and I know you afterwards enjoyed the sight of our being in
full action, quite naked--did you not enjoy it, dear Ellen?"

"Well, dear Charlie, it was very exciting, and made me feel queer all
over; but is it really three hands and a head long?"

I was delighted at the question, as it showed me she was ready for what
I intended should be done. Curiosity once excited was sure to go to the
utmost length, if it had the opportunity. I had purposely been hurrying
on to gain a dense copse through which our path lay, and I knew there
was a snug glade, where we would be in perfect security. It was the
dinner hour of the peasantry, and no one else was likely to come that
way. Just as we entered the copse, she had put her last question. I
told her I would show her, if she would step a few yards beyond the
foot path. She objected, for form's sake saying--

"What would Harry say?"

"There is no occasion for him to know anything about it, but even if he
did, has he not himself shown you mamma and me in full enjoyment of her
sweet charms; but, unless you tell him you may be sure I never shall,
it will not take a minute, and as we have already walked very fast, we
have plenty of time, and our absence will not be observed."

With professed reluctance she allowed me to lead her where I wished.
Having arrived at the favourable spot, I sat down on a gentle slope,
and begged her to sit down beside me. As you may well suppose, my prick
was rampant, and almost bursting open my trousers, so that as soon as I
unbuttoned, out it flew in all its splendour. She gave a half scream of
surprise as she gazed upon its large proportions, and declared it
looked larger than when she had seen it with aunt. Her face flushed,
and her eyes sparkled as she gazed, but she seemed half frightened to
touch it. I took her hand and placed it on it. She immediately grasped
it convulsively, but sighed deeply. I had lain back on the grass that
it might stand out boldly before her and I told her to try if it was
not three hands and a head long. She immediately passed one hand over
the other from the root, and said it was really monstrous, and she
wondered how aunt could have got it into her.

"Oh, my darling, I hope some day you will find that you can take it all
in with the utmost delight, but I should not think of trying until you
have had some more practice with Harry."

Meanwhile she was handling it with great excitement, and while saying
she was sure I could never succeed with her, she was evidently longing
to be able to take it in. I saw I must work her up more--so I said--

"Dear Ellen, you know what pleasure it gave you and Harry to play with
each other with your mouths, it is now your turn to let me see your
dear little thing--and then you must lie over me reversed, so that we
may enjoy ourselves with tongues and mouths."

She let me at once pull up her petticoats, but said she feared that
even for that she was still too sore from Harry's work last night. I
asked if she had bathed it in warm water and put glycerine up. "Oh,
yes."

At first it smarted, but before going to church, she had done it three
times, and no longer felt any pain, but still was afraid of my finger
going up. I was introducing it at the moment. It passed in its full
length without hurting her.

"Now, pull up your petticoats well, and lie down on me, while I do the
same with this charming little cunt; my tongue can only give it the
utmost pleasure."

She herself was now so much excited that she was ready enough to comply
with my desires. She got upon me, her petticoats well canted over her
back. She glued her lips to my prick, and sucked and frigged it with an
energy that proved how highly her passions were fired. Her cunt was
already in a foam of spendings, which I first licked up. Then sucking
her tiny clitoris, stiffly projecting slightly out, I thrust my middle
finger up her cunt, and by the wriggling of her backside, saw how much
she enjoyed it. Introducing a second finger to moisten it, I withdrew
both, and, turning my hand sideways, made each finger enter a separate
aperture. She was already nearly in the grand crisis; it came upon her
before I was ready. She poured a greater discharge into my mouth than I
thought the young thing could have spent. It took her breath away, and
she released her suction of my prick for a minute. But on my begging
her to continue sucking, she did so with increased energy, and I poured
out a torrent of sperm that shot down her throat and nearly choked her,
but the dear girl never let go for all that, and sucked away until not
only was there not a drop left, but by her delicious titillations she
had brought my prick up to its utmost vigour again. I, too, had
reawakened her passions. She wanted to renew the sport in this way
again, but I begged her to allow me to rub the head of my prick up and
down between the well-moistened lips of her cunt, and then to spend
with the point, or at most the head, within it. She asked if she could
trust me to stop if it hurt her.

"Of course, my darling," I said, "nothing shall be done, or rather
everything shall cease the moment you tell me to stop."

Half afraid, yet wishing to try, she changed her position to a kneeling
one. I canted her petticoats well over her back, and first kissing and
handling her hard and plump buttocks, which promised a future
perfection, I stooped and again licked her charming pouting cunt with
all its budding fair young curls. Then applying my surcharged mouthful
of saliva to my already well-moistened prick, I lubricated it
completely from point to root, and then applied it to the half-opened
lips. Rubbing it up and down here, and over the clitoris, I excited her
to the greatest pitch.

"Oh! Charlie dear," she cried, "try if its head will go in now, and I
will try to bear it."

I was only too glad of the permission, and very rapidly got it in over
the nut, but it was very tight. I drew it half out again, and then, on
repeating this five or six times, found I was imperceptibly gaining
ground.

"Oh! dear Charles, it is delicious! Try on, gently."

I did so, and had got rather more than half way in when she went off in
an agony of delight, deliciously pouring her warm liquid over my
enchanted prick, giving, at the same time, such a push backwards,
which, meeting a firm, though gentle forward movement on my part,
joined with the natural relaxation following her discharge, drove me up
to the hilt in the very tightest little cunt it has ever been my good
fortune to sheath myself in. I seemed to fill every cranny, and to have
stretched every part to its utmost distention. My aunt with her great
cunt had a power of pressure that seemed almost to nip off your prick,
Miss Frankland, too, was great in that way. But this was more like a
very well made first-rate kid glove, two sizes too small for your
fingers, yet giving way without bursting, and fitting every
irregularity of the nail or finger; just so her little cunt fitted my
prick exactly like a glove, and it was truly most ecstatic. A gentle
withdrawing, and then as gentle resheathing, so excited me that I shot
a torrent of sperm up into her very womb. She gave quite a cry of
ecstasy, and I could feel the tight sheath exercising a running
movement along the whole length of my prick, and still more tightly
closing all round it--if that were possible. It was so exquisitely
delicious that both of us were almost instantly in readiness for
another course.

She asked if I was all in.

"Oh, yes, my dear, do you think you could have taken any more?"

"Oh, no, it appears to fill me to bursting, and to be up to my very
heart. I could not have supported more, but could hardly believe I had
it all, as I did not think it possible, and was afraid there was more
to come."

"Did it give you any pleasure?"

"Oh, yes; and does so still--push on, dear Charlie, and don't spare me,
it is heavenly."

She wriggled and heaved her backside. I seized her by each hip and
favoured her side movements by, as it were, drawing her off and on;
faster and faster we moved, until at last the crisis seized us both
together. Her head sank with a deep sigh, or rather cry of ecstasy. She
would have fallen forward on her belly, but that my grip of her hips
held her bottom close up to my belly, with my prick thrust into the
innermost end of her cunt, until I felt the three points of the opening
of her womb, like the nailless ends of three fingers grasping, as it
were, the very point of my prick, and opening themselves to receive the
whole discharge of my sperm within its innermost recesses. Nothing
could be more delicious, and as I held her fast, I was myself in a
state of perfect ecstasy. At last addressing some endearing
expressions, and getting no reply, I found that the dear girl had quite
fainted away, and was insensible in every respect except in the
continued convulsive throbs of her delicious tight cunt. However,
finding that she did not recover her senses, I gently withdrew my still
stiff prick. Very little sperm followed the withdrawal. I wiped her
cunt dry with my handkerchief, and was glad to see there was no blood
stains. I laid her gently down on her back, ran to a little stream, and
taking two handfuls of water, came back, threw some on the still
throbbing cunt, and sprinkled her face with the drops that still
adhered to my palms. This had the desired effect; she opened her eyes,
raised herself on her bottom, and threw her arms round my neck as I
knelt by her side. Telling me I had made her taste of the joys of
heaven, she kissed me, and then burst into a hysterical flood of tears.
I comforted her as best I could and asked why she wept.

"I don't know, dear Charles, but the last time made me feel both sick
and faint just after you had given me such ecstasy as I never dreamt
was possible. I believe I then fainted, and even now, I don't know why
but I feel quite hysterical."

I kissed her tenderly, begged her to rise and come to the spring, where
she could drink and said if she sat down on her feet I would bathe and
cool her dear little cunt, which would probably put all to rights. She
did so, and was quickly quite restored to herself again. She said she
supposed it was my enormous size.

"But it did not hurt me, dear Charles, it only gave me too much
pleasure; but you will do it to me another time whenever we have any
opportunity, will you not, dear Charlie?"

I assured her I should always be too glad to do so, but that we must
neither let her aunt nor Harry know of our proceedings. This being
arranged, and she having quite recovered from the pallor her fainting
fit had caused, we resumed our course homeward, and so hurried on that
Harry, who had come to meet us found us getting over the stile of the
last field, and was even disappointed that we had got so far, for we
were now in sight of the cottage. He had hoped to find us much further
back, and that I might have favoured his having a go at his cousin
before reaching home. Ellen squeezed my arm. I said it was just as well
as it was, for any imprudence might have awakened his mother's
suspicions, and prevented a night of pleasure, which would be far
better than any uncomfortable field affair.

When we arrived at home, mamma thought that Ellen looked fatigued, and
advised her to go and lie down on her bed, and take an hour's siesta.
She told us boys we had better do the same, as she had some private
matters to attend to. Harry and I saw immediately what was meant, and
we betook ourselves to our respective rooms, I to expect mamma, who did
not fail to come, and Harry to watch her, and then made the most of the
opportunity with his cousin. I quickly undressed, and when mamma came I
found she had divested herself of stays and undergarments; so when she
undid her gown, and let fall her shift, she stood in all the naked
glory of her beautiful form. I flew to embrace her most lovingly. Both
our hands wandered and being both in full heat, we were at it in a
moment fast and furious. I drove on, admirably seconded by dear mamma,
and we quickly both gave down at the same instant a most delicious
libation on the altar of Venus, and then died away in all the
after-enjoyment. We lay for nearly a quarter of an hour soaking in the
delicious bliss of satisfied desire. Mamma, on coming to her senses,
kissed me most tenderly, and declared she had never believed it
possible that she could have had such exquisite delight.

"But then, my dear Charles, I never dreamt that any man, let alone a
boy like you, could be so magnificently hung. Oh, it is also such joy
to me to think I have first taught you the real joys of coition, and
tasted the first sweets of that most glorious weapon. My dear Charlie,
I must contemplate its beauties in this full light; withdraw the dear
fellow and turn on your back."

I did so. She rose, and turning in the reverse position, brought her
lovely foaming cunt right down on my mouth. I sucked up all the
delicious foam oozing from the aperture. Then drawing into my mouth her
half-stiffened clitoris, which was then pendant like a little boy's
cock, I soon sucked it into its utmost rigidity, frigging her rich
pouting cunt with two fingers, the while. She, on her part, was not
idle, first playing with my prick, covering and uncovering its head,
which soon made it stand up in all of its glory. She was profuse and
loud in its praises. Then getting too excited for mere admiration, she
took it in her mouth and sucked it, and manipulated it with one hand,
fingering my codpiece with the other. I then found her fingers were
feeling and tickling my bottom-hole. She took her mouth from off my
prick, and paused a moment; then again applied her finger to my
fundament, and made it gently penetrate as far as it would go. The
previous pause had evidently been for the purpose of moistening her
finger with her saliva that it might slip in easily. I was delighted to
find that she had come to this, but pretending ignorance, I stopped my
proceedings to ask her what she was doing to my bottom, which could
give me such exquisite delight.

"It is my finger, my dear Charles, my late husband was always delighted
with my doing this, and used also to add greatly to my pleasure by
doing the same to me."

"Shall I do so to you, dear mamma?"

"Oh, yes, my darling boy; moisten your finger first and then do it in
my bottom-hole, as you have been doing it in my cunt."

"But I think I can do both at the same time, they are so close
together."

"You are a delightful darling; do so, and it will be double pleasure to
me."

So I immediately commenced to postillion her to her and my extreme
gratification. We soon spent with the utmost delight, and both
swallowed all we could get, continuing our suctions until the passions
of both were again excited. I now declared I must fuck her again in the
kneeling position, in which she had before given me such exquisite
pleasure. As she drew a little higher up, I flung my arms round her
fine backside, and glued my lips to her bottom-hole, and thrust my
tongue in and out.

"Oh, Charles, dear, what are you doing? Oh! how delightful."

And she wriggled her backside over my mouth in a most voluptuous and
lascivious way.

"Oh, rise my darling, and fuck me; you have made me so very lewd."

I drew myself up on my knees behind her, and was into her with wild
ferocity that made her cry out with joy as she felt the mighty
instrument rush within her. I stooped and frigged her clitoris at her
desire, but wishing to contemplate the glorious movement of her
backside I begged her to frig herself that I might be able to do so.
Seizing hold of her lips, I drew her splendid bottom off and on my
stiff and glowing prick with such immense delight to her that she went
off and spent profusely, the hot stream bathing my delighted prick. But
having already fucked Ellen so shortly before, and having spent twice
at the present time, I remained for a while quiet, with mamma's
exquisite cunt deliriously throbbing round it to the infinite enjoyment
of my cock. I stooped and nibbled with my fingers at one of her
nipples. I played with and frigged her very fine clitoris, which was
soon in stiff-standing excitement again. Being cool myself, I soon
worked her up into the wildest state of excitement by my frigging and
the throbbings of my prick, aided with occasional long slowly drawn-out
movements, and then as slowly regaining ground until within the last
three inches, when it was thrust vigourously forward, and kept there
for her convulsive pressures on it. I kept this up until she was almost
wild with lust, and cried out for more vigorous movements. I did not
immediately comply, but continued my exciting proceedings until she bit
the pillow in the madness of her lust. Then I drove on fast and
furious, amid cries of delight and ecstasy on her part, until the grand
crisis overtook us both at the same instant in a perfect fury and agony
of delight. I had previously left the frigging to herself, and had
seized her lips and enjoyed the glorious sight of the furious
contortions of her bottom under the excessive lubricity of her wildly
excited lasciviousness. She died away in such excess of ecstasy that
she would have fallen on her belly but for the grip I had upon her
hips, and the pressure with which I drew back her glorious bottom
against my belly. I threw back my head in the agony of delight, and
brayed like a donkey as I had done once before when fucking the
luscious Frankland, and felt the three pointed entrance to her womb
close upon and nibble at the point of my prick so delightfully, just as
dear Ellen's had done in the wood. As I came to my senses I spoke to
dear mamma, and found that she too had fainted away, and was quite
insensible to everything but the convulsive inner movements of her
delicious cunt. I withdrew and laid her gently down on her side,
bringing a tumbler of water, a sponge, and towel, I opened her splendid
thighs, sponged and bathed her cunt, which showed but little of the
torrent of sperm I had just poured into it. I then sprinkled her face,
and she came to with a deep sigh. Her first utterance was to bless me
for the joy I had given her, which was in fact too much, and then she
burst into tears and became quite hysterical. I thought it odd that I
should have produced the same effect upon her more accustomed and more
developed organs as I had done on dear Ellen. I comforted her in my
boyish way, and asked how it was that the effect should have been
different from anything she had previously experienced with me.

"Ah! my dear boy," she said, with a deep sigh, "you have caused me such
extreme sensations that I fear you must have got me with child, you
seemed to penetrate my very womb, and to excite me far beyond anything
I ever previously remember."

"My loved mamma, can I possibly get a child?"

"Get a child, indeed!" she replied. "Yes, a dozen, with such a great
monster of a cock, that so excites us poor women."

I embraced her most tenderly, and said I was so happy to think I should
be the father of a child of hers.

"Alas! my dear boy, it may be joy to you, but what a sorrow it will be
to me if such should be the case; think how I should lose position in
the world if it should be known, and even if by going abroad I could
hide my shame from the public, still what shifts and contrivances I
should be put to to ensure secrecy; but never mind, my darling, I would
run twice such risk to enjoy your person, and secure your affection;
you must ever cherish and love me, my Charlie, for I risk good name and
fame for you; but now I must be gone, or we shall be sought for; try
and sleep a little, my dear boy, for I am sure you need it after your
exertions, and remember you must gain strength to renew them this
night."

She kissed me lovingly, rose, put on her things and left me to repose.
But I could not help thinking of what she had said about fearing that
that peculiar fuck in which she had fainted portended fructification.
If so, I thought dear Ellen will probably be in the same predicament,
for the result was precisely the same with her. I may here observe that
mamma's fears became certainties, both in her case and Ellen's.
Eventually they both left the country together, when staying would have
brought on discovery. And, curiously enough, they were both delivered
of daughters on the same day. Of both I was the happy father, although
Harry had the credit of Ellen's child, but she herself always asserted
to me that it was the delicious fuck in the wood that did the mischief.
And from the peculiar effect produced on both mothers on that day, I
never had any doubt of the real paternity, besides, the child grew up
my very image. Mamma's daughter was superbly developed when she became
a young woman. She had even a larger clitoris than Miss Frankland, with
which she absolutely deflowered her sister's cousin at the age of
fourteen. I may also incidentally observe that at the age of fifteen I
had both their maidenheads, as far as the male sex was concerned. And
Harry and I often fucked them together in every way; and my darling
daughter with her long and large clitoris has often fucked my bottom,
while I was doing the same to her sister, with Harry below fucking her
whom he believed to be his daughter. But this belongs to my latter
experiences, and has nothing to do with the present period of my life,
though, perhaps, I may be tempted hereafter to enter into all the
details of my middle age and later experiences.

Dear reader, pardon me this digression. To resume, I slept soundly for
an hour, then rose, and strolled in the garden with Harry, who related
to me how he had taken advantage of mamma's occupation to steal into
Ellen's room. She had been much afraid, the sly pussey, to allow him to
enter again, but when once he got within, and she found it did not hurt
her, but the contrary, she got extremely lewd, and they had two
splendid fucks. Then stealing along to my door to peep as to how we
were getting on, we so excited them again that he had another from
behind, while she stooped and peeped all the time, for it was when I
was fucking mamma from behind, on my knees, and they concluded it would
be our last for the present. When they had brought matters to a finish
they separated, and mamma had found Ellen fast asleep.

"But, by Jove, Charlie," said Harry, "how splendid mother fucks, I
quite envied you, and I shall never rest until I get into her myself;
how gloriously she wriggles her backside, and how lusciously she enjoys
fucking; to be sure such a mighty prick as yours is enough to stir up
every passion; it astonished, and I think made Ellen more lewd,
although she is sure she could never take in such a monster."

I smiled at thinking how easily the very youngest of the fair sex
deceives us, but I took care not to let Harry know my opinion.

We re-entered for dinner, and spent a pleasant evening, which was the
forerunner to the delights of the night. Mamma came as soon as she
thought Ellen fast asleep, which Ellen took very good care should soon
be the case. In a moment, she was quite naked, and clasped to my
equally naked body. I had been expecting her, and thinking over the
delights of our last fuck, so that I was rampant before her arrival.
She was equally eager for the fray, and at it we went hammer and tongs,
and soon brought the first bout to a close, in mutual "ah's!" and
"oh's!" of delight. We soaked for some time in the delicious enjoyment.
Then mamma scolded both herself and me for our precipitation, saying
that we threw away all the luxury and abandon of fucking when we went
at it in such haste; it was in that way mere animal instinct, and
wanted all the lascivious delight of lubricity and skill in fucking.
She said, now that the edge was taken off our appetites, we must begin
again with a mutual gamahuche. She rose first to piddle, and allowed me
to see the rush of water from her delicious cunt. Then lighting two
more candles, she placed two at the foot of the bed, and two at the
head, by which we should both have the advantage of seeing all we were
caressing. Then I lay down on my back, and she mounted on me, in
reverse, thus bringing her bottom down over my face. I thrust my tongue
up her cunt, and licked up the delicious spunk oozing down from the
inside. Her piddle had washed all away from the pouting lips. Then
taking her charming clitoris in my mouth, I sucked it up to its
greatest stiffness. I had thrust three fingers into her cunt, and when
I found she had thrust hers into my bottom, I transferred them all into
her beautiful pink bum-hole. They were very greasy from my sperm coming
down upon them when in her cunt, and as she favoured their entrance by
pushing out her bottom, all three slipped in, without, apparently, her
thinking it was more than one. I was delighted to see how easily it
stretched out, for this gave me great ground to hope that I should be
able to manage to get my large pego within, which I was fully resolved
upon doing, but it required a little artfulness to do so without
raising her suspicions that it was no new road to me. She brought
matters to a conclusion much as before, and when re-excited, mamma
proposed to teach me a new way, which was by her mounting on me, and
staking herself on my standing pego. Like others before her, she did
not stoop down upon me until she had made herself spend where she was,
while I saved myself for further fucking.

When she died off, she sank on my bosom. I clasped her waist with one
arm, sucked the bubby nearest my mouth, and reaching round my other
arm, I brought my hand over her bottom to the delightful orifice, first
moistening my finger with her spending which was oozing out between the
lips of her cunt and my standing prick. I thrust my finger into her
bottom-hole, and worked it in and out, to her infinite satisfaction.
She cried out in the excess of her lewdness--

"Oh! my dear boy, that is just as my dear husband used to do, and it
gave me great pleasure, but not near so much as you do, for your dear
prick is twice as large as his was, and fills me with an excess of
pleasure which was never approached with him."

All this led up to a superb and lascivious fuck, in which we both died
away in mutual ecstasy, with cries of voluptuousness, and then lay
soaking in delight until her weight forced me to beg her to turn on her
side. We then had a long sweet chat of love. Turning the talk on her
suspicions of having got with child at the morning prayers, I remarked
that she had had only one child by her husband, and as he had lived
many years after Harry's birth, and from what she said, she had
continued to be enjoyed by him, it was, therefore, not probable she
would now be got in the family-way.

"That appears probable, my dear boy, but then he took precaution not to
get any more children."

"But what precautions could he take, and how did he do so?"

"You are a curious boy, but I shall tell you. He used to continue long
at it, making me spend two or three times before he did, and then when
he felt it coming he used to withdraw, and his prick being all moist,
he would slip it into my bottom, and spend there as soon as ever he got
the head of it inside."

"And did that give you any pleasure, mamma?"

"He had excited me, and made me spend several times before he did so;
and beyond slight irritation I did not feel much pleasure, as he was
generally so near the crisis that he could scarce do more than get its
head in when off he went.

"Did he ever get it in altogether--and then did it give you pleasure?"

"Sometimes he did when he had drawn it out of my cunt too soon; in such
cases he used to pause until by rubbing my clitoris he got me into a
renewed state of lewdness, and then the pleasure was peculiar and
great."

"Oh, my dear, mamma, you must let me too fuck you in that way, and then
you know we shall get no children."

"My darling Charlie, it is impossible that this great big thing could
ever get into that orifice, my late husband's was not half your size,
and he had great difficulty unless I had already spent three or four
times and relaxed all those parts. I should not dare to let you attempt
it."

"Oh, yes my darling mamma, you will let me just get its point in and
spend there. I should so like to try. We will fuck two or three times
first, and then after the third time I shall frig you till you spend
first, and so I shall be ready just to put in the point for you to try
how it feels."

"But, my dear boy, the least throb on my part will push it out, unless
it is in over the nut, and only look what a size it is. I can hardly
grasp it, and although it is so velvety it is quite hard. Oh, the dear
fellow, let me kiss it, and then do you fuck me again, my darling."

She bent her body, gave me a delicious suck, then throwing herself on
her back, and opening her beautiful thighs, invited me to mount her.
Before doing so I also bent and sucked her charming and well-developed
clitoris, until she squealed again with pleasure, and begged me to put
it to her. I threw myself on her belly, and with one vigorous shove
drove my rampant prick up to the hilt, making her all shake again. She
was so hotly wound up that she spent with the single shove, and poured
a flood of hot liquid over my delighted prick. I, too, would have gone
off in two more thrusts had she not thrown her arms and legs around me,
and slipping her hands over my buttocks, held me tight pressed against
the pouting and greedy lips of her salacious cunt as if she would shove
in ballocks, buttocks and all, if it were possible. So keeping it
tightly thrust in up to the lowest hair, which lay all crushed between
us, I let her indulge in all the delight of perfect conjunction,
responding to her delicious throbbing cunt with powerful throbs of my
own highly excited prick. For more than a quarter of an hour did she
lie panting and convulsively sobbing in the perfect ecstasy of
enjoyment. At last she drew my mouth down to hers, and thrust her sweet
tongue into my mouth; I sucked it, and her hands relaxing the pressure
of my buttocks, against her cunt, I began a slow in and out movement
that soon renewed her utmost lubricity. Most actively and divinely did
she second me with an art quite her own. Fast and furious grew our
movements, until, like all things human, they came to an end in a
death-like agony of delight, in which my very soul seemed to take
flight, and we lay all unconscious, for I don't know how long, enjoying
all those exquisite after-delights which a prick soaking in the cunt of
a beautiful and lewd woman so enchantingly confers. When we recovered,
we rolled over sideways, and still intertwined and conjoined in the
sweet priapic bonds, we lay billing and cooing with all those soft
loving murmurings and bitings so befitting such moments. At last both
were again ready, and longing for the fight. I proposed the delicious
kneeling position. She saw at once my object, and said I was a little
traitor, who wanted to surprise her bottom-hole.

"But, my darling boy, it is really impossible."

I embraced, flattered, cajoled, and implored her until at last she
promised that if I would engage on honour not to go further, she would
try and support the entrance of my prick as far as over the nut, but
that I must really withdraw it if it was too painful for her. So these
preliminaries being arranged, she got into position. First stooping to
lick out her delicious cunt, and give a suck or two at her charming
clitoris, I brought my eager prick to the pouting and longing lips of
her delicious cunt, and after two or three rubs, thrust it in with a
rush that made my belly smack against her glorious backside. We then
lay quiet, throbbing mutually in the luxury of voluptuousness. I passed
a hand under her belly, and frigging her clitoris quickly, made her
come in an ecstasy of delight. I only gave her time for one or two
throbs of my prick, and knowing that nothing so much delights a
lecherous woman as quick movements almost immediately after spending, I
commenced rapid series of thrusts, shoving my prick well up to the hilt
every time, and talking grossly all the while, such as--

"Does not that shove make you quiver? There you have it to the ballocks
in your lascivious and delicious cunt," &c.

She grew madly lewd, called me her own dear delightful fucker.

"Yes, yes; I feel it is up to the root. I have it well in, my dear boy.
Your dear, great big prick, it kills me--kills--kills me-with-joy. Oh!
oh! oh!"

She squealed again with all the lewdness of the most delicious spend.
She had hardly gone off, and was yet in all the throes of delight when
I, too, feeling I could hold out no longer, suddenly withdrew the
reeking shaft, and bringing it to bear against the corrugated and
beautiful orifice of her bottom, attempted to introduce it.
Notwithstanding the fury of my excitement, I was sufficiently gentle to
push in without force, and sheathed it over the nut without difficulty
or drawing a murmur from dear mamma, who fulfilled her promise, and did
her utmost to help me by pushing out her big bum, and offering no
resistance with her sphincter muscles. I was so highly wound up that
even if I had promised to be content with the insertion of the head, I
could not have gone on further, as the access seized me with such
killing sweetness that I melted away, shooting a torrent of sperm far
up into her entrails, and then losing all power of even the slightest
further thrusts. I suppose it was the long holding back to let mamma
spend two or three times that had wrought me up to such a high pitch of
nervous excitement that when I spent I seemed to lose all power of
further advance. This was the first time I ever felt this momentary
impuissance, but it was by no means the last; it generally follows the
holding back your spending powers in the fuck that leads to it. The
delicious throbbings of dear mamma's luscious cunt, which were repeated
in her arms, soon reawakened my momentarily dormant powers. My prick
had gone down more than usual, so that it was only a soft half
stiffness that ensued, but enough to enable me to give it a forward
movement, and it slipped almost imperceptibly in quite as far as he
could go before dear mamma had recovered from the ecstasy of her last
discharge. As she came to, I continued convulsively catching my breath,
as if I were still in that exquisite sensation of half consciousness. I
felt her pass her hand between her thighs, and heard her murmur--

"Why, I declare he is up to the hilt!"

Her gentle touch on my cods, which she took in her hand and fondly
caressed, made my prick stiffen sensibly. She felt this, and caressed
them more until she made it stand as stiff as ever, still imbedded to
the utmost in that delicious bottom, which by its increased throbbings,
seemed rather to welcome the stranger than repulse him. I pretended now
to recover my full consciousness, and cried out--

"Oh, where am I? I have never known such heavenly joy."

She raised her face up from the pillow--

"Why, you naughty boy, you have actually gone in up to the hilt; ah,
you have broken your promise; but I forgive you, only don't move yet."

I assured her I did not know how it got there, as I had spent and lost
consciousness as soon as ever his head was within.

Here I throbbed, and was met by as delicious a pressure. I passed my
hand round her belly, and found her clitoris stiff and excited. I
rubbed with the fingers of the other hand at one of her hard projecting
nipples. She soon grew madly lewd, and began a side wriggle on my
rampant prick. I lay still, determined to let her passions demand
movement of my part. I had not to wait long. She begged me to try a
gentle movement, I obeyed, and slowly withdrew but a short way, and as
slowly returned. Soon her lubricity got beyond all bounds. She begged
me to draw out further and somewhat quicker--then quicker and quicker,
until we both were in an excess of furious lust, which knew no bounds.
We rushed on to the final crisis with mutual cries of agonised delight;
indeed, mamma squealed so loud that I afterwards thought she must have
been heard. Her pleasure was of the wildest, and when I poured a flood
of sperm up her entrails at the very moment she herself was spending,
we both fell forward and fainted away. I was too much lost in ecstatic
joy myself to observe this, but lay long a tightly held prisoner
engulphed in that most exquisite joygiving aperture. At last I became
aware that mamma had really fainted. So drawing my prick out with
somewhat of a good pull, for he was most tightly held, and came out
with a flop, I rose and brought some water to mamma. I sprinkled her
face, and she opened her eyes, which beamed the intensest love upon me.
Her lips murmured something, I put the tumbler to her mouth, she drank
with avidity. Then looking at me again with the most loving expression,
she said--

"My darling boy, you will kill me with delight. Never--oh, never--have
I known such joy. It was too much for me, and I fear I am also injuring
you. We must be more moderate in future. Help me up, for I must rise.
Your last coup requires me to absent myself for a few minutes."

She rose, threw her robe over her shoulders, and left the room to go to
the water closet. I hoped that she would not go into her own room and
discover how matters were going on there. Fortunately she was afraid of
awakening Ellen, and so prevent our continuing bedfellows for the rest
of the night. She returned. I had purified myself in the meantime, and
now acted as her _femme de chambre_, and laved all the parts.

"My dear boy, we must not do this again for some time, do you know I
have passed blood, and was very sore when relieving myself."

We got again into bed. She would not allow of any further fuckings, but
tenderly embracing me, and putting my head on her bosom, we soon fell
asleep. She awoke me at dawn with kissing me and feeling my
stiff-standing pego. She laid herself on her back, and we had two most
delicious fucks without withdrawing. I knew that if I did withdraw she
would take herself off. Nevertheless, she took most kindly to the
second, as it would be our last until we had another opportunity of
meeting. She exerted all her wonderful skill and her movements were of
astounding agility. She twined herself round me almost serpent-like.
Our mouths and tongues were equally engaged, and the final crisis was
beyond description exquisite. I tried hard for a third course, but we
had already prolonged our sports to so dangerous an hour, for we could
hear them opening the lower window shutters, that she gave me a sweet
kiss of thanks and tore herself away. I lay thinking over the joys of
that ecstatic night, and then rose and dressed quickly, as we were to
breakfast and then walk home, where we were expected at nine o'clock.
However, after breakfast, mamma drew me into her sanctum, a house
store-room, to give me some directions. Of course, no sooner was she
there, than pushing her towards the table, I canted up her petticoats
over back, and gave her a good fuck, getting in from behind. She
yielded with a good grace, notwithstanding her protestations that it
was not for that she had come, as if it had been for anything else! Oh!
woman, woman! how thou seekest to deceive, even when gaining the very
object thou hast in view.

Harry told me they had peeped in and seen what we were at but he was
not so ready as me, and had not been able to go and do likewise.

We loitered all too long, and did not get back to school until after
ten o'clock. The doctor sternly ordered us to attend him in his sanctum
at twelve o'clock. We knew what that meant--a good flogging, and then
the doctor enjoying the account of our successes. At twelve o'clock we
entered the doctor's room, who followed us immediately after. He
scolded us sternly for being late, and said he meant to flog us both
well for our idleness and, he had no doubt, debauchery. We knew
immediately that he meant to lay on. From time to time he was fond of
really seriously flogging some one and we now saw that such was his
present intention, although we also knew it would end in an orgie,
after we had excited him sufficiently by recounting the details of the
fucking which he no doubt felt certain had taken place. He made us all
strip, and choosing to take Harry first he made me the horse to flog
him on. When all was ready, he began by some real sharp cuts on Harry's
backside, and then commenced his remarks.

"So, young gentleman, you have been seducing your cousin, have
you?"--whack--whack--whack--"and then making that the excuse for
neglecting your school." Whack, whack, whack. "I thought I had formerly
whipped out all idea about fucking your cousin." Whack, whack, whack.

Poor Harry writhed in real pain.

"Oh, sir, I'll never do it again without your leave."

"My leave indeed!" Whack, whack, whack.

The doctor now laid on for some time most unmercifully until the
revolution of pain turned to lubricity, and Harry's cock began to
stand, rapping fiercely at my bottom as he writhed under the sharp
infliction of the rod. Upon seeing the expected effect, the doctor
relaxed his severity, and changing the rod to his other hand,
afterwards only tickled the bottom to keep up the excitement. Taking
hold of the standing prick, he said--

"So this is the article that has been doing all the mischief."

He frigged it a little, stooped and gave it a suck.

"Ah, yes, I find it still tastes of cunt, and smells the true odour of
it; so you have been at it this morning again. Let me hear how it
happened."

Here Harry was let go. The doctor seated himself, Harry stood before
him, while the doctor in delight, handled his stiff-standing pego.

"Now, let me hear."

"Well, sir, when Charlie occupied mamma--"

"Oh, that is it, is it?" cried the doctor, "we shall have all that out
of him, by and by, go on."

"I slipped into Ellen. She made some difficulty for fear mamma should
catch us; but I took her and showed her through the key hole, how she
was having Charlie into her. Ellen was astonished at Charlie's immense
size, and seeing how easily and delightedly mamma accommodated him, she
thought that my smaller size could not hurt her, and she let me do it.
But I made her scream and bleed when I got in far enough to reach her
maidenhead. She tried to shake me off, but I was too firmly seated for
that, and I fucked her then, and again before I withdrew. I laved her
cunt and applied some glycerine, and this morning did it again without
hurting her any more. And she liked it so much that afterwards she
would kiss and suck it, and made me spend in her mouth, and then got me
up again for a final go."

"Upon my honour, a very pretty affair," cried the doctor. "Now suck my
prick, as she sucked yours."

This Harry did, till the doctor was rampant. He then made him cease,
but ordered me to mount on Harry's back. I knew I should catch it
sharp, as the doctor was just excited enough to wish to be more so. And
preciously he gave it me--interpolating questions as to how I had
accomplished my wicked ends. I told him it was his own advice to me to
let her see my prick, which I did, and the bait took.
Whack--whack--whack.

"And did you act this innocent sin?"

"Oh, yes! do spare me, sir, and don't lay on so hard."

Whack--whack--whack.

"Spare you, indeed! and how did she fuck?"

"Oh, most splendidly, sir."

Whack--whack--whack.

"How often did you do it?"

"I hardly know, sir; we were at it all night, and again this morning."

"Did she suck your prick?"

"Oh, yes, sir."

Whack--whack--whack.

"What did she think of it?"

"She said it was the finest she had ever seen, and that I must keep it
for her only."

"Well, that will do, now suck my prick, as she did yours."

He was soon excited up to the top of his bent. He made Harry take the
rod, and belabour his backside, and I had to stoop over the table,
while he fucked and frigged me, repeating all the time the account we
had given him of our fucking. After he spent, he dismissed us, having
gained his object. Shortly before our Christmas holidays commenced,
dear Mrs. Dale informed me, while sleeping with her one Saturday night,
that she found from the stoppage of certain things, she was in the
family-way by this sad rogue of a fellow, taking my large though at the
moment soft and inert instrument into her caressing hand.

"Oh, my darling mamma, is it so indeed?"

My prick rose to bursting point at the very idea, and in an instant I
was on her, and we ran a most delicious course, in which both died away
in rapturous insensibility. Being thus cooled, mamma began to discuss
the probabilities, and what ought to be done, if it should turn out as
she feared. She explained to me that as yet she could not speak with
certainty, but remembering the fainting on the first night, and the
cessation of her monthlies, the nature of which she explained to me,
little dreaming that I was perfectly _au fait_ of the whole matter, she
had every reason to dread that her fears where too well founded. This
would make it necessary for her to go abroad, when she would be so far
advanced as to be likely to draw observation. But she said it would not
do to distress ourselves about that until we were more certain of the
event. However, the very idea nerved me to renewed efforts, and again,
and again, we rushed into all the ecstasies of passion in every form
and way, especially did I gamahuche and suck up her precious balm, and
in like manner she, too, sucked me until exhausted nature laid us both
in the lap of Morpheus. We renewed our delightful pastimes when morning
light awoke us after our refreshing slumbers. Several times during the
Sunday we adjourned to mamma's bedroom for the same purpose, and again
had a glorious night of it before separating on the Monday morning. The
following Sunday, after another Saturday night of bliss, we all went
over to church, which heavy rain had prevented on the previous week,
and after service went to the rectory for luncheon. Here, in course of
conversation, Mrs. Dale mentioned that business would require her
presence in London for some days, and that she proposed starting on the
following Thursday, which was the day after our breaking up for the
holidays. She said also that she would take her son with her to London.
The doctor here observed that he, too, must go to London, to see a
gentleman who had some idea of sending his son to the rectory, and if
Mrs. Dale could defer the departure until Saturday, it would be very
agreeable to him to be her companion on the journey. This was readily
acceded to, and my dear aunt, who guessed to what this tended, and who
had herself taken a great fancy to Ellen, and longed to embrace her
young charms and gamahuche her, chimed in with a proposal that as the
dear girl would thus be left quite alone, she would be most happy if
she would accept her invitation to occupy the bedroom that opened out
of her own room during Mrs. Dale's absence. The latter, who little
dreamt of my connection with her dear niece, and thought that the
protection of my aunt would be a safeguard to her, jumped at the
invitation, and expressed her gratification and thanks for so kind a
consideration on my aunt's part. I have not alluded to Harry all this
time, but of course, whenever his mother and I were occupied in amorous
alliance, he was equally engaged in the same delicious pastime with
Ellen. And, I may add, that once or twice I had seized a favourable
opportunity of gratifying the little lecherous creature with what she
called a feast of my noble prick. She, of course, was delighted at my
aunt's proposition as she at once foresaw how she would have me all to
herself for more than a week. A single glance from her explained all
this; and when, on leaving, she found an opportunity of taking my hand,
her pressure of it was most eloquent. So all parties were delighted,
for Harry, when we got together alone said--"By Jove, Charlie, I am so
jolly glad; I'll bet you anything I'll fuck my mother before I come
back. You know how I long to be in the delicious cunt that bore me; the
moment I heard she meant to take me with her, my cock stood ready to
burst."

My uncle, too, who also longed to fuck Mrs. Dale, had his intentions in
that direction favoured by the arrangement concluded. The following
night, when I was in bed with aunt and him, in the interval of a
charming little orgie, and after fucking me while I was in aunt's
bottom, and for the moment he could do no more, the conversation turned
on the coming journey. He expressed the pleasure he felt at the
opportunity it gave him of indulging in a long desired object. The
lecherous old fellow also alluded to a future opportunity it would give
him of enjoying the younger charms of the niece.

"Of course, you and my dear wife between you will break her in to allow
of any action on my part; and, by the way, my dear, I would suggest
that you should surprise Charlie in the act, and tear them asunder in
pretended rage--that Charlie should seize you, and say he would make
you by force a participator in the act, on the pretence of shutting you
up for finding fault: you must break from his arms, and fly to your own
bed, he must catch you as you try to enter it, and push his great big
cock into you, on which you must cry for help, and call upon Ellen to
come to your succour; she will come, but I do not judge her right, if
she will not rather assist Charlie, by holding you, than otherwise. You
must afterwards appear much offended; but it may be safely left to the
influence of Charlie's great prick to reconcile you to the incest, then
relaxing, as if gained over by it, you can join in their sports."

Thus this admirable man, with his great knowledge of the world and sex,
gave us excellent advice, which, as I shall state in the sequel, we
followed pretty exactly. Meanwhile aunt, excited by expectation, had
taken my prick in her mouth, and sucked it into firmness, then mounting
upon me, she began such an exciting action, wriggling her magnificent
backside, that it fired my uncle anew. Finding his prick stood
sufficiently stiff, he knelt between my legs, and greatly to the
satisfaction of my darling aunt, gave her the double pleasure of two
pricks fucking her at the same time, one before and the other behind.

My guardian had desired that I should continue with my uncle during the
holidays, and I was to leave him altogether at the end of the next
half. I did not know his object at the time, but I found that he
himself went down to my mother, and stayed for a fortnight, paying
great attention to Miss Frankland. He announced his wish that my
sisters should go to a first-rate finishing school in London in the
summer, and seeing Miss Frankland look somewhat disappointed, he sought
an interview with her, and laid himself and his fortune at her feet;
expressing a wish that if she accepted him, their marriage should take
place on her separation from her pupils. This was too good an offer to
be refused, and after the usual grimace of being perfectly unprepared
for such a proposal, and desiring to have a day or two to consider it,
she accepted the offer. I at once anticipated immense gratification
from this connection. I should naturally, when in London, have every
opportunity of enjoying that adorable creature, and it will be seen in
the fourth volume of these memoirs, to what delicious orgies this
connection led. You may be sure that my loved mistress, the adorable
Benson, and the no less lascivious Egerton, would welcome so glorious a
creature as Miss Frankland, at that time become Mrs. Nixon, and how
the Count's eyes glistened, when he beheld her in all the majesty of
her superb and hairy form; how the two women gamahuched her splendid
clitoris, and how the Count and I strove which should most fully
satisfy her lascivious and lustful passions. But all this will be seen
in its proper place in the sequel.

Meanwhile the day arrived for the departure of uncle and Mrs. Dale,
with Harry. As the coach passed through our village, Mrs. Dale drove
over bringing Ellen with her, to leave her at the rectory, as arranged.
All the proprieties were duly observed. They departed, Harry going
outside, with only the doctor and Mrs. Dale in the interior, I squeezed
my uncle's hand, and gave him a knowing look, which he returned, with a
meaning wink--and off they went. When we returned to the house, and
aunt took Ellen up to the room adjoining her own, with which there was
a door of communication, and which, I have before observed, had been
made use of by uncle on more than one occasion. When they came
downstairs, with kind consideration, for she could see by the
protrusion in my trousers the state I was in, aunt said--

"My dear, I have some household duties to arrange, so you must excuse
me; meanwhile Charlie will show you our grounds, and amuse you for an
hour or two. When luncheon is ready I shall order the large bell to be
rung for you."

Ellen had not yet removed her bonnet, and taking up her shawl, we
sallied out. You may be sure we lost no time in reaching the summer
house, already known to you as arranged for and dedicated to the
service of Venus. A fire was always kept laid, which I immediately
lighted, but as it was a bright sunny day, and the place looked south,
it was not at all cold. While I was occupied at the fire, Ellen threw
off her bonnet and shawl, and undid her belt--she wore no stays. I
seized her in my arms, and gently laid her on the couch--her petticoats
were freely canted up, showing her beautiful belly and now more fully
fledged cunt. I stooped and gamahuched her at once. She was so excited
that in two minutes she sighed deeply, pressed my head down to the lips
of her cunt, and gave down her sweet and balmy sperm. I myself was
already so rampant that not waiting to lick it up, I brought my huge
pego to the charming orifice, and plunged in one effort up to the hilt,
quite taking away her breath. But she recovered herself in an instant,
and with all the energy of her younger lubricity, quickly brought us
both to the grand final ecstasy in which soul and body seem to die away
in a joy too great for poor humanity to bear. We remained locked in
each other's embrace, and lost to all around for some time. On coming
to our senses I rose, and said we must go to work more lasciviously the
next time. The fire having burnt up, and the room being small, it was
already of a pleasant temperature. So begging Ellen to strip, I threw
off my own clothes, and we quickly stood in all the beauty of nature,
admiring each other. Some delicious preliminaries preceded our next
encounter, which we procrastinated till passion could no longer be
restrained, and again we died away in all the raptures of satisfied
lust, and sank once more into the soft languor of the after-enjoyment.
Next we had a mutual gamahuche, and then a final fuck for the present,
as it was time to dress and be ready when called to luncheon. As soon
as our toilets were finished, I took her on my knee, and told her how I
should steal along to her bedroom at night, so that she must not lock
her door. I told her also that we must be as quiet as possible, as aunt
slept in the next room. She was delighted with the prospect of having
me all to herself for the whole night, naively telling me that I gave
her so much more pleasure than Harry did, that I seemed to fill her
whole body with a joy almost too intense, and now that she was to have
me every night, she hoped her aunt would stay away for a month. Here
the dear creature threw her arms round my neck, and kissing me, thrust
her sweet little tongue into my mouth. You may be sure I reciprocated,
and putting a hand up her petticoats, and a finger up her charming
little cunt, was just about to turn her on the sofa, when my aunt
opened the door, and stopped further proceedings. She pretended not to
see Ellen's confusion, hoped I had amused her, and told us to return to
the house, as luncheon was ready. We, of course, obeyed. With sharpened
appetites, produced by our late warm exercise, we indulged in a
plenteous meal, aunt taking care to ply me with Champagne, for which,
as may well be imagined, she had her object. She afterwards ordered me
to my room, to do the daily task the doctor had set for me and which,
as she said, she was to see to the doing of--giving me a sly wink.

"Ellen, my dear," she added, "you must keep up your practice at the
piano daily, for an hour and a half at least."

She thus separated us. I went to my room, lay down, and fell fast
asleep, but in about half an hour, was awakened by the warm embrace of
my glorious and wantonly lustful aunt. She stooped down, and taking my
limp prick in her mouth, rapidly sucked it into its accustomed
firmness. As soon as that was accomplished, she begged me to rise and
undress. She herself had come only in a loose morning dressing-gown,
which she instantly threw off, and jumped on my bed, where she lay
stark naked, in all the splendid development of her superb form. I was
naked in a jiffey, but knowing she would want some extensive fucking, I
threw myself upon her cunt, and gamahuched her until she spent twice
before I mounted upon her, and introduced my large tool into her
longing cunt. Here, also, I played with her, and did not spend myself
until she had twice given down her own contribution. This encounter was
on her belly, with her magnificent legs twisted above my loins for a
fulcrum to her splendid action, for few women could equal her in the
delicious wriggle of her glorious backside. After we had soaked for
some time in all the ecstasies of the after-languour. I withdrew, to
place her on her hands and knees for the next bout, but took advantage
of her position to gamahuche her again into spending twice before I
withdrew my insidious tongue. Then turning round, and gazing in rapture
on that most noble and massive bottom, which, as I have before
remarked, I never saw equalled by any woman, I stooped, and closely
embraced and kissed its divine orifice, tickling her into wild
excitement by thrusting my tongue therein, so much so that she begged
me to fuck her at once. I mounted behind, her hand passed under her
belly and guided me into her throbbing hot and longing cunt. I gave one
violent lunge, and sent my prick at the first thrust up to the hilt.
This so excited the dear creature that in one or two delicious wriggles
on my stationary prick, and with a pressure that seemed as if it would
nip it off, she spent profusely, squealing all the time like a rabbit.
I was very glad to give her so many discharges, without myself being
forced to spend, for I wished to be able to do my duty by Ellen at
night. Aunt lay for several minutes panting and throbbing on my prick
most deliciously, until I could no longer bear to be inactive, although
the pleasure of looking down on the glorious and palpitating orbs below
me had given me the greatest satisfaction. But now stooping down upon
her, I passed one hand under to excite her clitoris, and with the other
took hold of one of her beautiful large and hard bubbies, and began
manipulating its nipples--a proceeding most powerfully exciting to dear
auntie. It awoke all her lust and the dear lascivious creature again
spent before I was ready to follow suit. The pause that followed
allowed my excitement to subside a little, and enabled me to hold out
until her lust recovered its wonted energy. She again, with her
pressures and movements, soon compelled me to more rapid action, but
this time I determined to enjoy the exquisite delights of her delicious
bottom-hole. So when she became very hot, I suddenly withdrew, and,
happily, hitting at once on the delicious orifice, plunged at the first
thrust up to the cods, taking dear aunt's breath away, but she
instantly recovered, and loving sodomy to her heart's core, I could not
have done anything better suited to her libidinous passions. It was
glorious to see the energy with which she met and responded to my
thrusts, her superb buttocks working with surprising energy, and giving
me, at each stroke, when I buried my prick to the hilt, the most
exciting pressures. Both being so lustfully excited, matters were not
long in coming to the final ecstasy. I felt as if my whole soul was
poured into her, when with loud cries of the liveliest enjoyment, I
spent with fury, in the very heart of her entrails. She was perfectly
overcome with delight, and sank senseless on her belly, dragging me
down with her, for her grip by the sphincter was too strong to let
anything out that was within. We both became insensible to everything
but the delicious death-like languor of the after-enjoyment. We lay
long in this trance of joy, and when dear auntie came to her senses,
she begged me to rise, as she must go downstairs. I did so, and when
she rose from the bed, she took me in her loving arms, and kissing me
tenderly, thanked me for the enormous pleasure I had given her, and
said no one in the world was my equal, and that I ought to thank her
much, that she allowed any one else to participate in my exquisite
power of fuck. She gathered up her gown, and left me to dress. I soon
was downstairs, and found Ellen, who looked as if she expected me to
find an opportunity to fuck her at once. But after the encounters I had
already had, both with-her and with aunt, though I had kept myself from
excess with the latter, I felt no inclination to press matters again to
a conclusion, especially seeing that I intended passing the night with
her. So assuring her we should be likely to be caught if imprudent and
so lose all chance of night work, she was satisfied to be quiet and
reasonable. Aunt coming in, we spent the afternoon in pleasant
conversation, and a walk together in the garden. After dinner I fell
sound asleep on the sofa. The two women, each with the same object,
left me to my deep repose, and only awoke me when it was time for all
to retire. Thus refreshed, I was all ready for the night's work before
me. I allowed half an hour to elapse, that all the house might to be in
their bedrooms, and then, with merely a loose dressing-gown on, I stole
along to dear Ellen's room, opened the door and entered. She was
already in bed, impatient for my arrival; she had left both lights
burning, as well as a cheerful blaze from a good fire. I dropped my
robe, and was in an instant stark naked, and in her longing arms. Under
our mutual impatience, our first was a rapid course. Then followed a
long enjoyment of the after-languor, and then a more prolonged and
rapturous embrace. After soaking in bliss for some time, we rose, and I
posed her before the fire, gazing delightedly on all her young charms.
The hair on her cunt had become much more developed than before, her
bosom too was filled out, even her hips and bottom seemed enlarged,
doubtless owing to the fucking she had had since I first knew her,
which naturally hastened her ripening into womanhood. I grew very
excited by this inspection of her increasing charms, and determined to
have a fuck on the rug before the fire. In order to enjoy it the more,
I drew forward a cheval glass, projected it forward, and lying down,
directed her to move it until I was satisfied I could see all the play
of her bottom in the position I meant to fuck her. So lying down on my
back, I made her stride across my head and settle down on her knees,
and bringing forward her delicious little cunt over my mouth, I
gamahuched her until she had twice given down her balmy essence. Then
she shifted her position lower down, until just above my prick, which
by this time was rampant with desire. I guided its point to the
rosy-lipped orbit, and bringing her own weight to bear upon it, she
sank delightfully impaled upon the upright stake. I made her rise and
fall a few times, that I might enjoy the sight of its entrance and
exit. Then gently drawing her down upon me, I folded one arm round her
slender waist, and turning my head, found that the cheval glass,
inclined forward, reflected as it were from above her beautiful bottom
and back, and of course her cunt stretched to the utmost with my huge
prick, and above it the sweet little corrugated pink aperture of her
bottom. With my free arm I embraced one hip, and bringing my hand
round, moistened it with the plenteous spunk of her cunt, and
insinuated a finger into the smaller abode of bliss. Her excitement
grew furious, and knew no bounds. The action of her backside was
glorious to see reflected in its active risings and fallings. I let her
do all the work, which enabled me to hold back my own, until she
approached a second discharge, when the heat of her cunt seemed to fire
me with additional powers, and the action of both our backsides became
fast and furious, and soon brought down the ecstatic discharge, which
instantly laid us low, panting with all the wild passions we had just
allayed. We lay long locked in each other's arms in the ecstasy of
blissful enjoyment. Then rising, we embraced tenderly, and retook us to
bed. I would have excited her and myself to another effort, but she
begged off, saying that she felt quite exhausted and overcome with the
day and night's work we had already enjoyed. Indeed, I did not wonder
at it, for I had made her spend seven or eight times more than myself.
Nor did I regret her resolution, as I knew the morning would bring my
aunt into the field, and then the two would try my powers to the utmost.

We slept profoundly, and morning was already advanced before we awoke.
From a displaced chair I saw that aunt had been in to look at us, so I
knew she was on the watch. I threw the clothes off dear Ellen that I
might gaze on all her young charms. The want of covering awoke her. She
lovingly looked up at me, and throwing her arms round my neck as I bent
over her, drew my head down to hers, and impressed a loving kiss on my
lips. Our tongues interlaced--a hand slipped down and encircled my
rampant and throbbing prick. I turned, and placing my knees between her
legs, was about to penetrate love's bower when the door leading to my
aunt's room flew open. My aunt entered, gave a scream of surprise--well
acted--and cried out--

"Good gracious! What do I see? Who would have thought it-"

And, apparently to save Ellen, she rushed forward, seized me by the
arm, and with a certain degree of willingness on my part, drew me out
of bed, saying--

"I am horrified beyond measure. How dare you commit such a sin and
crime as to seduce a young girl under my care? Cover yourself up, sir,
directly, and go to your own room."

I boldly declared I would do no such thing; on the contrary, as she had
spoiled my sport with Ellen, I was determined she should pay for it
herself.

"How dare you talk to me, you dreadful boy?"

"Not dreadful at all, dear aunt, look at this poor dumb thing, and see
how he longs to be into you."

Upon this I seized her in my arms as if to throw her on the bed. She
made a pretended struggle, during which she gave a tender squeeze to my
rampant prick. Then, breaking from me, she fled to her own room,
pretending to endeavour to shut the door in my face but taking care to
give way and hasten towards her bed. I caught hold of her as she bent
forward as if to get into it, and canting up her chemise, the only
article of dress she wore, I was into her longing and luscious cunt
from behind up to the hilt in one thrust. She gave a subdued scream,
and called to Ellen to come and prevent me from violating her. Ellen
came, but wisely would only look on while I worked away manfully.

"Ellen, why don't you pull him away--he is ravishing me--and oh,
horror!--committing incest."

She pretended to struggle greatly, but cleverly did so to her own
profit, by wriggling her backside so as to send me further up into her
cunt.

"Oh, Ellen, Ellen, do help me."

"Ah, no," said Ellen, "I shall let him do it, and then you cannot tell
upon me."

My aunt seemed greatly distressed at this, and actually managed to shed
tears, then buried her face in the bed as if in despair, but all the
time most actively seconding me. As the crisis drew near, she raised
her head, and said--

"Heaven pardon me, this mere simple schoolboy is exciting me to such
pleasure as I never before felt."

She then gave way to all her lubricity, and we brought matters to a
crisis in the utmost ecstasy of enjoyment. Aunt's head sank on the bed,
while the rapturous inward pressures of her cunt soon began to raise my
prick to its pristine vigour. She felt its throbs and responded to
them, but no doubt thinking that an immediate repetition would betray
our previous intimacy, she turned her face and body suddenly round, and
completely unseated me, my prick coming out with a plop. She began
again to weep, women can do so at pleasure, and to scold me for the
dreadful crime I had committed; to do so to her was incest--here
followed sob upon sob. I threw my arms round her neck, and kissing her
tears away, laid all the blame on that rampant fellow--taking her hand
and placing it on my still stiff prick. She drew her hand away quickly,
but not before she had given it a gentle squeeze. She told me I was a
dreadful boy, and that I must go away and leave her and Ellen to think
over what could be done in such an awful dilemma.

Here Ellen came forward, and tenderly kissing her begged her not to
send me away.

"I do so love him, dear madam, and I do so long to have him now--it was
so exciting to see him having you, that I shall die if you don't let me
have him now."

"Dreadful! dreadful!" said aunt. "Why, I thought I was just in time to
save you."

"Oh, no, he had slept with me all night, and has often had me before,
but he was not the first who had me, so that there was no violation nor
seduction."

"Then you must have seduced him, you wicked minx, for a more innocent
boy never was known."

Poor Ellen, confounded at the accusation, repelled it as untrue, and
said she knew well enough who seduced me.

Aunt for the moment felt this as a home thrust, for be it remembered,
she fancied she had had my maidenhead.

"What do you mean by that? I insist upon you speaking out."

Ellen gave way and said it was Mrs. Dale who first had me.

"She had accidentally seen how powerfully Charlie was armed, and then
could not resist teaching him how to use his weapon. I saw them doing
it, and hence I longed for it myself. Look, dear madam, what a noble
one it is. I am sure, if you had known of it, you could not yourself
have resisted having it, try it, try it once more, and I am sure you
will forgive us, and share our joys."

I seconded this good advice. Aunt seemed to be afraid of me, and jumped
into bed. While she was on her hands and knees I also jumped up, and
catching her round the waist, held her fast until I could also kneel
behind her and bring my prick into play. With all her apparent attempt
at resistance everything was done in such a way as to facilitate rather
than prevent matters going forward. Of course I was in her in a moment,
and then remained quiet for a few minutes to let her enjoy her inward
pressures for which she was so famous. She had buried her head in the
pillow, crying out--

"It is dreadful!-it is dreadful!"

Ellen came and leant over the bed embracing her, and telling her not to
resist, but to take it in freely, and then she was sure it would give
her the utmost pleasure.

"It is that which horrifies me, my dear, I never felt anything so
exquisite in my life before, but then think of the sin--with my own
nephew! it is quite an incestuous connection."

"What does that matter, dear aunt? for I shall call you aunt too, you
are so loveable and so beautiful. Oh, it was such a pleasure to see him
doing it to you and you are so gloriously fine a woman, I longed to be
a man to have you."

She had embraced aunt's splendid bubbies, than which nothing could more
please her, and now she begged to be allowed to suck one. Aunt gave
way, and was delighted. She slipped the hand next to Ellen down to her
charming cunt-Ellen opened her legs--Aunt's fingers began frigging her.

"Ah, my dear, how I loved to embrace my own sex at your age, our
tongues acted instead of men, and I could still delight in a fine fresh
one like this, it would almost reconcile me to what this bad wicked boy
is doing."

"Oh, that would be charming!--do let us do it at once. Charlie can
withdraw for a moment while I get under you, and while you lick me I
can excite you and see the glorious work above me."

"You tempt me much, my dear girl, but what would your aunt say if she
knew?"

"But she never will know," said Ellen, who was all the time arranging
herself on the bed.

Aunt moved aside to allow Ellen to get under her, who then begged aunt
to throw off her chemise that both their bodies might be in close
contact. Aunt was longing to do so, yet made some grimaces about it.
She at length complied, and striding across Ellen, threw herself with
avidity on the delicious young cunt below, and began to gamahuche her a
mart. I instantly resumed my position. Ellen guided my prick into
aunt's burning cunt, then frigged aunt's clitoris, and worked a finger
in my fundament, while aunt was so delightfully gamahuching her. We all
rapidly came to the grand finale, with an excess of lubricity rarely
equalled. We were all somewhat exhausted by this bout, and, as it was
getting late, we rose. Aunt pretended to forgive my violating her for
the pleasure I afterwards afforded her. She embraced Ellen tenderly,
and said she had so enjoyed her person she hoped to renew such a
delight. Then taking hold of my prick she kissed it and sucked it until
it stood upright, and said--

"I don't wonder, my dear, at your having it when once you had seen it,
and I envy Mrs. Dale the pleasure of having first enjoyed such a
monstrous thing. If I had known he was so wondrously provided, I doubt
if I could have resisted the temptation to teach him how to make use of
it myself--my only wonder is how such a little thing as you have got
could ever take it in."

Ellen laughed, and said that her cousin Harry had opened the way, or
she doubted if ever she could have admitted it, but I was so gentle
while getting in, and when once in, it filled up every crevice so
deliciously, that she should grieve much if she were refused access to
it in future.

"So, dear aunt, I hope you will let him do it to us both. I can do to
you what you have just done to me, because before we had him and Harry,
aunt and I used to amuse ourselves in that way. Aunt is immense in that
particular, she could put it a little way into me, and gave me great
pleasure, and she said that I sucked it better than either her late
husband or any of half-a-dozen schoolfellows who used to amuse each
other; so, dear aunt, you must let me do it to you while Charlie is in
me, and then you will do it to me while he is in you. Only fancy how
nice it will be."

"Oh, you dear little coaxer, you are enough to seduce an angel."

So all was arranged that Ellen should come from her room and I from
mine, and meet in aunt's bed at night. We did so meet, and a most
glorious eight days we spent. I showed aunt that I could get into
Ellen's bottom-hole, and thereby gave her immense pleasure, and with
more reason the same result would occur with her. She gave an
apparently reluctant consent, and, that done, there was no bridle to
the utmost lubricity that the most wanton lust could devise. Aunt took
immensely to Ellen, and gamahuched her _à mort_, while the other repaid
her in kind. I did not regret this for it relieved me from too
excessive work. Thus we passed a most delightful eight days before the
absent ones joined us. Both uncle and Harry had succeeded in their
desires. From each I had the fullest details, but as their stories
would in some particulars repeat themselves, I shall relate the events
in a connected narrative.

Uncle and Mrs. Dale had the inside of the coach to themselves, Harry
riding outside. Uncle began by praising Harry; and then reverting to
the time he was first sent to the rectory, and the note Mrs. Dale sent
with him; he asked, not without a knowing smile, if the intimacy she
had formerly feared had been at all renewed, because he had observed
that Harry appeared worn and pale on his return on the Mondays, and was
dull and stupid that day. Mrs. Dale seemed somewhat alarmed at hearing
of this, probably she began to think that something might have occurred
between the cousins while she was busied with me, uncle observed her
uneasiness, and, guessing the cause, said--

"My dear Mrs. Dale, if anything has taken place, and anything comes of
it, I am a man of the world, and you may rely upon my assistance and
discretion to take such steps as may tend to keep it from the knowledge
of the world."

She thanked him, and said she would be glad to accept his aid if any
unfortunate event should have happened--but she hoped not.

Uncle saw that her fears were excited, so he held onto the subject, so
at last she avowed the she feared there might have occurred some
passages between the two cousins, for she had foolishly trusted that
all thought of that had gone out of their heads, and she might not have
taken such precautions as she ought to have done.

"Well, my dear madame, my services are at your disposal in case of any
necessity, I am not in reality strait-laced, although, in my position,
I am obliged to appear so. I feel certain that my experience would be
able to suggest the best way of hushing up the scandal if such should
be likely to occur."

Mrs. Dale was profuse in thanks, and the doctor became warmer in his
discourse, saying that for such a woman as herself, whom he had long
admired and coveted, he would do anything.

"For, my dear madam, though I am in the church, something of the old
Adam still adheres to me, and the sight and touch of one who has so
charmed me as you have done makes a young man of me again."

Here his arm glided round her charming little waist. He drew her to
him, and with some coyness and words of refusal, she yielded her lips
to his embrace. His other hand, lifting up her petticoats, sought to
feel her beauteous cunt. Again resistance of hand and tongue, but a
yielding for all that, and the doctor soon got possession of her lovely
cunt. Finding her large and fine clitoris in a state of stiffness, he
knew that her passions were excited. So opening her legs, he got
between them down on his knees, and as he previously unbuttoned his
trousers in readiness and the fresh cunt stimulating his powers, he
pulled out his prick fully erected, and quickly established himself up
to the hilt within, the lady up to the last declaring she could not
allow him, but wriggling her bottom to perfection as soon as she felt
the doctor's very fine prick working within her. She then hugged and
seconded him, kissing and tongueing to his heart's desire. They soon
brought things to the ecstatic conclusion, to the great satisfaction of
both parties.

Of course, after this there was no difficulty in arranging for a
comfortable meeting in London. Indeed, it was resolved that they should
lodge in the same house and have contiguous apartments. On their
arrival in town they put up at one of those large lodging houses in
Norfolk Street, Strand, and were fortunate in finding the first-floor
bedrooms vacant. The house was a double one, or rather two houses
opening into each other. The doctor's bedroom was in the front, and a
former door of communication with the back room was locked on one side
and bolted on the other. Mrs. Dale took the back room, from whence
opened a small room with a bed in it, where Harry was lodged. The
doctor had thus easy access when the lady chose to withdraw the bolt on
her side. After consultation it was thought more advisable that she
should go into the doctor's room, so that Harry might not by any
possibility, hear any love exclamations that might happen to escape
them in the excess of their amorous amusements. Of course, the doctor,
who knew all about Harry's great desire to fuck his mother, and that he
meant to do so by one way or another in London, communicated his
intention of having Mrs. Dale into sleep with him that night, and,
therefore, begged Harry to defer his attempt until after the first
night, and then the doctor would aid him in his efforts.

The wily doctor fully intended, after Harry had perfectly succeeded, to
become the future companion of their incestuous intercourse. Harry's
bedroom door had one of those old-fashioned brass locks that were
screwed onto the inside of the door, with a brass covering for the bolt
at the side--not morticed as is now usual. Mrs. Dale locked her son in
after he retired to bed. Harry noticed the circumstance and smiled to
think how easily he could foil her but as he had promised the doctor to
make no attempt on his mother that night, he went to bed and slept
soundly. Next day he provided himself with a turn-screw and a small
phial of sweet oil. When mamma was busy at cards, he slipped upstairs
and easily unscrewed the brass receiver of the bolt, he oiled the
screws and worked them in and out until they went freely and then
screwed the covering on again, and felt secure of entering mamma's room
whenever he pleased. It had been combined between the doctor and him
that by means of gamahuching and frigging, mamma should be put into a
state of great excitement without allowing her to be satisfied, so that
her passions might be in favour of being fucked, no matter by what
prick. For this purpose the doctor was to keep her with him till dawn.
At night Harry watched through the key hole, and when he saw his mother
pass into the doctor's room, he at once unscrewed the covering, shot
back the bolt, and screwed the cover on again. He was thus all ready
for any event, and if his mother was astonished at his entrance, he
could say he found the door open, and she must have forgotten to lock
it. Thus prepared he went to bed and slept soundly. He was awake before
seven o'clock, and gently opening the door a little, he could see by
the opposite open door, and the light in the doctor's room, that mamma
had not yet left him. He drew on his woollen socks, and sitting where
the light flashed through the key hole, awaited his mamma's return,
which occurred very shortly after. The shutting off the light by
closing the door of communication told him that she had returned to her
own room. He heard her sit down on the pot, and the force of the flow
of water proved how healthy she was. He heard her rustle into bed. Then
throwing off his dressing-gown and socks he opened the door and
approached his mother's bed. Being awake, she instantly saw him in the
half-daylight that came from the unshuttered window.

"Harry! What on earth brings you here, and how did you open the door?"

"I heard you moving, dear mamma, I could not sleep for the cold. I got
up and tried the door, it was not locked, you must have omitted to turn
the bolt, but I should have rapped and called to you, if it had not
been open. I want you to let me get warm in your nice warm bed, and you
will cuddle your poor Harry--will you not, dear mamma?"

"If you will be quiet, and speak lower, for the doctor may hear you,
you may come in, and if you turn your back, I will warm you."

Harry lost no time in lying down by her side, and being really very
cold, and even shivering, he was glad enough to do as she bid him, and
turn his back, and cuddle his bottom into his mother's belly. She said--

"Poor boy, he is indeed cold, now go to sleep in mamma's arms."

Of course, he had no such intentions. Speedily getting warm, he turned
his face to mamma, and whispered, in the same tone she used--

"Oh, how I love my beautiful mamma."

Pressing his belly against hers, and letting her feel his prick
standing against her mons Veneris.

"Harry! What do you mean by embracing me in that way--don't you know I
am your mother, sir?"

He had seized with one hand her beautiful firm bubbies, and was
evidently in full amorous excitement, as she could feel by the stiff
pego pushing against her mount of Venus.

"My darling mamma, if you knew how much I love you and how I have
longed to embrace your beautiful body."

"Go along, you impudent boy, do you not know it would be sinful to
indulge in such sentiments with your mother-leave me directly."

"Oh, no, mamma, I can't, indeed, my own mamma. I mean to possess you,
what harm can there be in returning to whence I came."

Here he transferred his hand from her bubby to her splendid mons
Veneris, and showed what his words meant. She pretended to be very
angry, and endeavoured to push him away, but he held her round the
waist with his other arm too well.

"Desist this instant, or I shall cry out."

She really appeared very angry but, nevertheless, did not excite a
whisper during all the colloquy before or after. Harry now thought of
his best argument.

"Why do you attempt to repulse me in this way, dear mamma? Why should
you not let me enjoy your person as much as you like Charlie to do it?"

She gave a start at this home thrust.

"What do you say, you naughty boy? and where did you hear such a
falsehood as that? is that one of your friend Charlie's inventions,
after all the kindness I have shown him?"

"My darling mamma, Charlie never opened his lips to me on the subject.
I speak from what I saw with my own eyes."

"What do you mean? Tell me directly."

"Well, my loved mamma, do you remember the first Saturday night that
Charlie and I slept at home: after retiring to my room, I was obliged
to go downstairs to the water closet, where I went in my stockings, and
without a light, not to disturb you. I was coming up again, when a
sudden flash of light shone out in the upper passage. Mounting the
stairs, and when my head was on a level with the upper floor, I saw you
going towards Charlie's room. I went into my own, but left the door
open to see when you would return; finding you did not come back, I
crept softly along the passage, until I came to the turning that led to
Charlie's room. The light shone through the key hole. I quietly
approached. You know the bed exactly faces the door--and there, my
darling mamma, I saw you initiate Charlie into what was to him a
previously unknown pleasure. Oh! my beloved mother, the sight of your
naked charms, of the delicious way in which you were giving him his
first lesson in love, maddened me with desire. I was almost tempted to
come in upon you and violate you, if you would not consent. It was in
that state I remembered that Ellen was asleep in your bed. I ran there,
and throwing off the little I had on, I lay down beside her, and began
feeling her private parts. She awoke and said--

"'Dear aunt, do you wish me to do the same to you?'

"Her hand passed down to my erect member, she gave a cry of
astonishment. I whispered it was only me.

"'Oh! you must leave me directly. Aunt can only have gone to the water
closet, and will be back directly.'

"She was not to be pacified until I convinced her that there was no
chance of your speedy return, so I was obliged to bring her along to
Charles's door; we saw you quite naked, rising and falling on the
enormous weapon that Charles has. I never before saw it erect and could
scarcely believe my eyes; nor was it less wonderful the way in which
you so charmingly took it in. It greatly excited Ellen, as well as me.
We returned to your room--the fire still burned. I laid her down on the
rug before it, and took her maidenhead. She had seen how Charlie's
monstrous affair went easily into you, and felt how much less mine was,
so she never dreamt of it hurting her, and she let me get fairly within
the lips; then, while making her spend, I suddenly thrust it through
all impediments, and the affair was done; she gave a scream, as it hurt
her, but I had shut the door and none of you heard it. I let her sleep
after this, and did not do it again till morning. The next night we
again watched your delicious proceeding. Ellen was less sore, and we
repeated your example several times. She continues to this day to
wonder at the enormous size of Charlie's tool, and is surprised at your
taking it in so easily. But, oh, my mother, how my passions have been
excited by your glorious charms. What is Ellen compared with you? She
did very well to relieve my agony of desire to possess you, when I knew
you were better occupied, and that I could not do so--but that is all.
It is you, and you alone, my beloved mother, whom I adore, and I wildly
long to' possess this dear and magnificent cunt beneath my hand." Mrs.
Dale was perfectly flabbergasted at this recital. "You abominable boy,
how dared you to follow me, and be a spy upon your mother, and to make
it known to Ellen, too; doubtless you have been boasting of it, and
telling others."

"No, indeed, mamma, Ellen and I were on oath that we would never reveal
to any mortal the delicious sight we had seen--so you see, darling
mamma, that you can fully trust your own boy. Oh, do let me do it; feel
how my poor thing throbs."

Here I must give you Harry's own account of what took place.

"I took her hand with very little resistance, and I could feel her
fingers gently clasped my prick, before she withdrew her hand.

"'But no--it cannot be--it would be incest."

"She twisted her body round, so that her magnificent bottom came
against my belly. As she turned, I slipped my hand down, and laid hold
of her shift, so that in turning, it left her bottom bare, and sticking
out against me. I lost not an instant, and before she had quite settled
down, I brought my stiff-standing pego against her delicious cunt from
behind, and as it was reeking from her previous spendings produced by
the rector's gamahuching, I plunged it at one shove as far as her
buttocks against my belly would allow, at the same time dropping my
hand from her waist to her cunt, so that when she sprang forward, as if
to turn me out, I met her clitoris, it was quite stiff, showing her to
be really in a state of amorous excitement. This attack on the clitoris
made her as quickly move back, which double movement thoroughly
engulphed me. I lost no time in proceeding to the most active movements
in and out. This was too much for her, she could not resist entering
into the encounter with all the force of her passions, and we ran a
very rapid course, ending in the most ecstatic delight, and with sighs
of joy we lay clasped together in all the delicious after-languor. I
could feel by her exquisite internal pressures that her lust was not
yet alleviated, and this nerved me to fresh efforts. After a feigned
resistance, dear mamma passed her hand behind her, and putting it on my
buttocks, assisted in sending me further in at each home thrust. We
were longer this bout, and enjoyed it more. After the usual indulgence
in the after-joy, she turned, and embracing me tenderly said--

"'Oh, my dear child, this is very wrong, but very delicious. You must
be very discreet, my dear Harry, for if it were known it would disgrace
us both for ever.'

"'My sweet mamma, do not fear; have you ever seen anything like
indiscretion in the last six weeks, although I was madly longing for
you? Oh, kiss me, my beloved mother.'

"The sweetest of kisses followed, our tongues met, her hand wandered;
already she found my pego standing.

"'My darling, I must kiss it, it is so much more developed than I could
have expected, and as hard as iron.'

"'Not as large as Charlie's, mamma.'

"'That is true, my dear; but it is the stiffness, and not the size,
that gives the real pleasure. Of course, when both are combined, as
with Charlie, they are irresistible.'

"Meanwhile I was feeling her cunt: her clitoris, which you know is
largely developed, stood stiff.

"'Mamma, darling, what a size this is. Ellen told me you could put it
into her.'

"'Oh! the bad girl, to tell tales out of school.'

"'Never mind, mamma, I must suck it while you play with mine.'

"I turned on my back with my heels up--mamma lay down upon my belly
reversed. I sucked her clitty while frigging her cunt, and she sucked
my prick until we both spent, and each licked or sucked all the balmy
sperm that issued from the other. We continued our caresses until my
prick showed its readiness for another encounter. Mamma took me on her
belly this time, and as soon as I was engulphed, threw her legs over my
loins, and, by the most lascivious actions, contributed to our
enjoyment. Her glorious bottom heaved in unison with mine, our tongues
were interlaced, and at last with sweet murmurs of delight, we died
away in each other's arms in the most luxurious ecstasy of thoroughly
gratified desire. We lay long insensible of all around, throbbing in
pressures of lascivious delight, which would have soon led to another
love bout, but that mamma whispered it would be imprudent to continue,
for the sun was up, and breakfast time had arrived. I withdrew from the
sweet cunt with great regret, and in slipping out of bed brought my
mouth down to it, and gave it a loving kiss and suck, played with the
magnificent covering of bushy ringlets, and then tore myself away with
difficulty. Thus ended my first possession of my adored and glorious
mother, which was followed by night upon night of the most lascivious
enjoyment. I returned to my room, and was dressed and downstairs before
her. The doctor took an opportunity to inform me that she had excused
herself from joining him the next night on the pretence of not feeling
well, but in reality it was to have me all to herself for the whole
night; and a most delicious night it was. She displayed and exercised
her libidinous passions to the utmost. Never before had I such a treat.
It was, perhaps, the closeness of the relationship that added to the
excitement, but it appeared to me that she beat even the doctor's
splendid wife. Oh, she was so loving, too. The way she fondled me in
her arms and caressed me was irresistible. I can't tell how often we
did it--we were at it all night. The next night, under pretence of
fearing to exhaust me, she forced me to retire to my room after two
fucks, and locked me in. I had previously been informed by the doctor
that he had bespoken her for that night, and he begged me to fuck her
first, that the pleasure of gamahuching her might be enhanced. I,
therefore, did not do more than make a feigned resistance to her when
she told me I must go to my own bed. She said she would let me have one
embrace before she rose in the morning but that one was converted into
two exquisite spends. The next night the doctor wished to repose, as he
purposed surprising me in the morning. I laid myself out for this, and
when mamma was asleep I rose as if to piddle. I unbolted the door and
shook up the doctor, and then returned to bed. I had agreed with him to
make more noise than usual in the final ecstasy; he was to wait long
enough to allow of the after-enjoyment, as if he was taking time to
clothe himself a little, and was then to come in with a light. My
mother still slept. It was about four o'clock in the morning. I began
feeling her glorious buttocks, and, sliding under the clothes, turned
her legs apart--she insensibly slipped upon her back, I took her
charming clitoris between my lips, and soon sucked it into stiffness.
The excitement awoke her--she had dreamed I was fucking her--and so was
hot and randy. She drew me upon her bosom, threw the clothes off, and
her glorious limbs clasped my loins--her two hands pressed on my
buttocks, as if to drive me further home, and we ran a most delicious
course, I feigned to be even still more excited than I really was, and
almost brayed at the ecstatic moment of ejection. Mamma herself was too
far gone in delight to notice the loudness of my braying. She lay
panting and throbbing on my prick, almost in a state of insensibility
to aught else beside. Her eyes were closed, so that she did not observe
the entrance of the light carried by the doctor. It was not until he
was standing by the bedside, and made an exclamation of surprise, that
she was aware of his presence.

"She gave a scream--though not very loud--and covered her eyes with her
hand. I scrambled off her. The doctor, with great politeness, begged
her pardon for his intrusion, but hearing what appeared to him an
unearthly noise, he had feared she was taken ill.

"Here the usual resource of woman--tears--fell plentifully from mamma.
The doctor most affectionately begged her to calm herself.

"'My dear madam,' said he. 'I do not in any way blame you for this. I
am a man of the world, and I know that incest is practised to a far
greater extent than is at all imagined, and to prove that it in no way
offends me, I may at once tell you that it was my own mother who
initiated me into these delightful mysteries. I see that this dear boy
looks terribly frightened at my being a witness to the delight he must
have had; but to put him at his ease, we may as well inform him that
we, too, have indulged in that delicious game. I may add that this is
not the first time I have joined in orgies with more than one man or
woman, and nothing gives me more pleasure than to embrace one reeking
from the arms of another, especially if I have been a witness to the
previous encounter. See, my dear madam, how this dear instrument stands
stiff in proof of what I say, and to insure my silence dear Harry must
not object to my enjoying you after and before him.'

"So saying he dropt off his trousers and jumped into bed. He was met
with feeble remonstrances from my mother at doing it before her son:
but I assured her that I rather preferred to see her at work, as she
knew, than otherwise, especially as she evidently enjoyed it so much.
So the doctor forthwith mounted her. There could be no doubt that she
enjoyed it equally with him. My cock stood at the sight. I put it into
her hand, and she squeezed it lovingly--then stooping I sucked one
nipple, and you know how this excites her, and slipped a hand behind
the doctor, and after gently tickling his ballocks, acted postillion to
his bottom-hole. They ran a most exciting course and died away in
mutual raptures. No sooner did he turn off than I jumped up into his
place, and in one moment was up to the cods in that overflowing cunt.
Mamma feebly expostulated, but the doctor begged her to let him have
the pleasure of witnessing the vigour of the youth. I knew that in
heart mamma was delighted, for all women especially enjoy having a
fresh prick into them immediately after a previous one has been
withdrawn."

This is quite true--witness my own dear Benson in our early days; her
greatest delight was to have me the instant B. retired, and she avowed
that nothing could give her greater pleasure. I knew a lady in
after-life whom I and three others used to have together, and no sooner
was one off than another was on and sometimes two at once. She used to
tell us how she deceived her husband. When at Florence she had eight
lovers, and she had had them all on the same night without any of them
knowing of the others. She managed it in this way. She made them
come--two at ten o'clock, two at half-past ten, two at eleven, and two
a half-past eleven. They were put in four different rooms with
convenient sofas. She ran to No. 1 in a merely loose robe, which was
instantly thrown off. She was a magnificently made creature, the sight
of whose charms would inflame any one. She rapidly got two goes from
the first without withdrawing. Then saying that her husband would be
seeking her if she did not leave him, she rang for her German valet,
who used to fuck her himself, and who afterwards confirmed her story to
me, who showed my gentleman out of the room. Off she ran to No. 2, told
him she had only got away by letting her husband have a go, and that he
thought she had only gone to the water closet so he must do one good
and leave her. Of course the cunt full of fuck only excited him the
more, and he very soon racked off to her great satisfaction, and was
dismissed, leaving the rooms vacant for the two at eleven. As there was
not five minutes to spare she ran to No. 3, where another lover was
waiting. The same pretence was made as to the last, but as he was
largely hung, she got two coups from him and then packed him off, and
in the same way ran to the others, always with the same story, getting
two coups out of three running, who were the best fuckers, and waiting
with the last until he could do no more.

The same lady told me that once while living at Dieppe her husband ran
over to England for a few days. During his absence she had four young
men to supper every night, and made them all fuck her on the sofa
squabs laid on the floor, accommodating one in her bottom at the same
time. During the day her landlord, a married man, used to come in and
rack her off besides. At one time she was left alone at Mannheim, where
she made acquaintance with an officer, who introduced a second, and a
third, until she knew eight in all. She had the whole lot once to
supper, and they all fucked her three times each. She was a wonderfully
fine woman, and could take no end of fucking. Her father had initiated
her at twelve years of age. She was of Greek origin, and actually was
hairy and menstruated at that early age. But all women are rakes in
their hearts, and numbers never encumber them.

During Harry's encounter with his mother, the doctor stood beside them,
and handled Harry's ballocks and acted postillion to him. Mamma took to
it most kindly. The sight again inflamed the doctor, the incestuous
idea enhancing the excitement. As Harry withdrew, he begged Mrs. Dale
to get on her hands and knees, to let him put it in from behind. He
would rather have gone in behind but did not think she was as yet quite
prepared to allow that. He only said that the movement below his eyes
of such a fine bottom as hers added to the excitement. He further
proposed that she should kneel over Harry's body reversed, so that she
might gamahuche him, and he frig her beautiful clitoris.

"You mean to kill me between you," she said, but all the same complied.
She sucked Harry's prick and he spent in her mouth, which she swallowed
with great gusto, spending herself at the same moment in advance of the
doctor. Harry kept frigging her clitoris with one hand, while the other
was frigging the doctor's bottom-hole. It was a long bout, she made
Harry spend twice in her mouth, while she spent thrice to the doctor's
once, all dying away together in the final fuck. They lay long lost to
everything, and when they recovered, they separated and retired to
their own rooms.

The ice being thus broken, the remaining days were passed in the most
refined lasciviousness. The doctor had his way with her bottom, and
asked her leave to have Harry's after Harry had had his mother's
bottom-hole, while the doctor was fucking her, and had fucked the
doctor upon another occasion, the doctor crying out--"Hi, hi, hi!" as
if it hurt him, and he was losing his maidenhead. He professed immense
satisfaction, when she let him have Harry, declaring that he could not
tell whether having her both ways, having Harry, or being had himself,
was the greatest pleasure. Mamma declared that to have both apertures
filled at the same moment was the most delicious. It was then the
doctor said he would try. So fucking mamma in a kneeling position he
presented his great backside to Harry and was well fucked. It was after
this complete initiation that they returned home, and after such
proceedings, the transition to a general entry into our orgies was
easily arranged. As they were to arrive to a late dinner, it was
resolved that Mrs. Dale should stay the night, and we would see what
that would bring forth. They arrived accordingly. Mrs. Dale went to
Ellen's room, taking Ellen with her to help her at her toilet. Here
ensued an explanation between them. Mrs. Dale felt that there must be
an explicit avowal on both sides. She admitted to Ellen that Harry had
come to her bed, and only succeeded in his horrible purpose by telling
her how he and Ellen had seen her operations with Charlie, and had
followed her example.

"And now, my dear Ellen, as there must be no secrets between us, tell
me if you and Charlie have got together."

"Well, yes, we have. You know I had seen how immense he was, and yet
with what pleasure you took him in. So curiosity made me give way one
day that we were in the summer house, and he slept with me afterwards."

"Does the doctor's wife suspect?"

"Oh, yes, she knows all about it. I forgot to bolt the door one night;
in the morning Charlie made too much noise. She came in, merely in her
chemise, ran up and pulled him off me, without imagining she ran any
risk herself. Charlie seized her in his arms, and swore he would do as
much to her, to prevent her telling. She was horrified, and fled to her
own room, but had not time to shut him out; he forced the door open,
she ran to her bed, intending to ring for the servant, he caught her as
she had one knee up on the bed, and was into her from behind before she
could accomplish her purpose. She cried out to me, to come and pull him
away. I went, but told her Charlie was right, as it would prevent her
splitting upon us. I rather think that Charlie's large proportions gave
her much pleasure, for she soon ceased to struggle, indeed she had her
back to him, and his strong arms round her waist prevented her using
her hands. She cried much afterwards, and talked about the greatness of
the crime. She had then got into bed. Charlie followed, to coax and
console her, and, of course, got into her again. I thought she enjoyed
the second, for her bottom heaved to meet him. She afterwards accused
him of the crime of seducing a young lady, her guest, but I stopped
that, by avowing that my cousin had had me previously. Then she accused
me of seducing Charlie, and here, I must implore your pardon, for I let
out inadvertently that you had initiated him, for I had seen you having
him."

"Oh, you bad girl, how could you be so cruel and imprudent?"

"Well, dear aunt, there is no great harm done. Charlie's aunt was soon
quite appeased and regularly joined us after this. She is as fond, if
not fonder, of gamahuching me as you used to be; she has grown greedy
for Charlie's immense cock, envies your having had the first of him,
and says that if she had known of his wonderful proportions, she could
not have resisted initiating him herself. She hopes that, through my
means, she will become more intimate with you. I have told her of your
beautiful clitoris. She dotes on the gamahuche, and vows that she will
never be happy till she has done it to you."

This explanation was a great relief to the widow, who knew she was all
right with the doctor, and now foresaw that it would be all right with
his wife also and they would have complete freedom to indulge in the
wildest lubricity. So having dressed, they descended to dinner. The
doctor had explained all their London doings to his wife, so that after
dinner the three ladies exchanged confidence. Aunt was so eager to see
and suck Mrs. Dale's large clitoris that they adjourned to aunt's
bedroom, where the doctor discovered them in the midst of their
operations. Mrs. Dale was stretched on her back, with extended
thighs--aunt, with her head pressed by Mrs. Dale's hands down on her
cunt, was sucking at the splendid clitoris, and working some fingers in
and out her cunt. They were too intent on their pleasure to notice his
entrance. Aunt's petticoats were above her hips, as she knelt. The old
boy's cock stood, he advanced, knelt down, got between her legs, and
fucked her as she was, begging her to continue her lascivious
operations on Mrs. Dale. When he had finished, he congratulated both
ladies on the intimate friendship established between them, said it was
the best wish of his heart. He assured Mrs. Dale that his wife was the
best woman in the world, and never grudged him a little variety.

"So I have acknowledged my infidelity with you, and it appears my
nephew has been taking my place, in my absence. She tells me you
instructed Charlie, and that he is monstrous when in erection, as big
again as me, or as a certain Grenadier Captain, once a favourite of my
wife's. I am curious to see it. She tells me also that he has been
sleeping with your charming niece Ellen, who, I must confess, has
raised in me a great desire to possess her. Now, my dear madam, if you
will consent to invite Charlie to sleep with you and Ellen, I could
come in, after you have each had a turn or two out of Charlie, and take
Ellen, while you would have Charlie all to yourself. My wife won't
object, and I hope you will give your consent."

"Well, my dear doctor, after what has occurred between us, I can refuse
you nothing, but I think dear Harry should have some comfort. I
suppose, my dear madam, that the doctor has told you of my son
surprising and violating me. Your husband reconciled me to his
caresses, and I can assure you that without the enormous size of
Charlie, he has a charming way that may please any woman. From what the
doctor says, you are free from prejudices, why should you be left out
in the cold, while we are all enjoying ourselves, why should you not go
to his bedroom, and see what he is made of. I, his mother, can strongly
recommend him to your favour."

So it was arranged.

During the evening, Mrs. Dale whispered to me to come to them after the
domestics had gone to bed. I went and fucked them both three times,
twice in front and once behind, the one who was being fucked always
gamahuching the other. When I began to tail off, Mrs. Dale arose,
unbolted the door of communication with uncle's room, and invited him
to Ellen's arms, who was very glad to have a little further experience
of another man's prick. Uncle gallantly gamahuched her before fucking
her, then begged to see my wonderful prick, pretended to be perfectly
astonished at its monstrous dimensions, and wondered how Ellen's little
cunt could ever have taken it in. It was a tight fit certainly, but the
dear creature liked it none the worse for that. Before fucking Ellen,
he begged Mrs. Dale to let him guide my large prick into her. After
enjoying our first movements, and being excited into sufficient
consistency, he proceeded to fuck dear Ellen; even he had some
difficulty in entering, notwithstanding the libations I had previously
poured into her, but being once fairly hilted, he declared it was one
of the tightest little cunts it had ever been his good fortune to fuck.
After this, we proceeded each our way, and with a longer interval,
brought matters to the exquisite conclusion, panting and throbbing for
some time afterwards.

The doctor now retired, and we arranged ourselves for repose. We were
awakened in the morning by the entrance of aunt and Harry. He flew to
his mamma's arms, who lay down on Ellen to gamahuche her while Harry
was fucking her. Aunt and I coupled in the old-fashioned way. Uncle
entered while we were in full operation, and seeing the tempting
backside of Harry, scrambled up behind and fucked his bottom. After we
had done, aunt pretended to be shocked at his attack on a boy's
bottom--a woman's was a different thing.

"Well, then, my dear, get upon Charlie the next time, and I shall fuck
your truly magnificent bottom."

And he drew Mrs. Dale's attention to the glorious proportions, not only
of aunt's bottom, but of her body, and all her limbs.

"Oh, it is indeed glorious," said she. "I must, my dear madam,
gamahuche you. I have not forgotten the exquisite pleasure you gave me
in that way."

"Willingly," cried my aunt, "provided you give me your clitoris to
occupy me."

"Certainly, that will suit me admirably; but you must lie upon me, that
I may have the pleasure of gazing on that magnificent bottom, and
caressing the immense rotundities of your buttocks."

Oh, it was a glorious sight to see these two wanton lascivious women in
the full enjoyment of each other. It set us all on fire, and the moment
they had done I slaked the fire within me in the capacious but tight
cunt of my aunt, while uncle fucked her bottom-hole. Mrs. Dale lay
under Ellen, while Harry fucked Ellen from behind, and Ellen gamahuched
her aunt, who herself guided her son's prick into Ellen's cunt, and
tickled her clitoris, at the same time acting postillion to her son's
bottom-hole.

Oh! it was a splendid bout--we were all so excited and it was also the
first meeting of us all in one orgie. We all died away in a perfect
heaven of ecstasy, and lay long in the after-enjoyment. Our previous
night's work made this the last for the time, and we all separated to
seek some welcome repose before breakfast time.

Mrs. Dale remained our visitor for three days, during which we met in
the doctor's bedroom every night, and renewed our delicious orgies.
Mrs. Dale carried off her son and niece, and I promised to come over to
her cottage on the following Saturday, when Harry and I took turn and
turn about with the two dear creatures, sometimes fucking one between
us two at once. When the school resumed its work, Mrs. Dale and Ellen
always dined at the rectory on Sunday and slept there, when we made a
general orgie in the old style.

This continued until our midsummer holidays, when I was to leave the
rectory for King's College. Mrs. Dale's and Ellen's pregnancies, daily
becoming nearer to the period of parturition, were getting more
difficult to conceal. We had long discussions with uncle as to what was
best to be done. It was at last arranged that they should leave the
cottage as if for a tour on the continent, but in reality should only
go to Paris, and take apartments in the house of a good _accoucheuse_
in the environs, and remain quiet there till the period of delivery. It
was not necessary for them to go before we broke up, and the doctor and
Harry and I could accompany them, and after I had seen my guardian on
my return to London, I had no doubt of getting his leave, and the
necessary means to visit the continent up to the middle of October,
when the classes would begin. It all fell out as arranged. Nothing of
the pregnancy was visible, thanks to the full robes worn.

We accomplished our journey, found a capital _accoucheuse_ in a
beautiful neighbourhood, with a large garden. Harry, uncle, and aunt
remained with them, while I returned to London. I saw my guardian, who,
after putting me through an examination, expressed himself much pleased
with my progress, said the visit to the continent would expand my mind,
and that he would furnish me with the means. He recommended that I
should visit my mother first for a fortnight, and announced that at
about the end of that time the girls would come up to London to enter a
first-rate finishing school. He further told me he had proposed to and
had been accepted by Miss Frankland, and they were to be married at the
same time; my sisters were to be bridesmaids, and I could be present at
the marriage before going abroad. All this being arranged, I ran down
home. My mother was delighted to see me, and thought me grown and much
improved. It is needless to say how glad my sisters and Miss Frankland
were to see me. They had had no fucking except by tongue or dildo, so
you may imagine the fury with which they set upon me the first two or
three nights. We resumed all our lascivious operations of former days.
My sisters had developed into splendid women, the youngest still the
most libidinous. Dear Miss Frankland, on my congratulating her on her
intended marriage, lovingly told me that it was the prospect of being
near me that had reconciled her to it. We spent a most delicious
fortnight, which passed like a day.

I found an opportunity of fucking my old governess, Mrs. Vincent that
was. My son was a fine little fellow, toddling about and talking
already. His mother loved me as much as ever, and was become a finer
developed woman, more amorous and lecherous than she used to be. She
said no one could be kinder or more loving than her husband, and she
had never been unfaithful to him but with me, whom, as her own
formation, she must always love, and would never refuse me anything I
asked when it could be safely done. At the sole opportunity I had I
fucked her three times without drawing, and finished with a
bottom-fuck. I may here mention that a little girl followed for nine
months from that period, which she always assured me was mine.

My mother, the girls, and Miss Frankland all came up with me to London.
The marriage went off with _eclat_. My guardian made very handsome
presents to my sisters, and gave me a gold watch, chain, and seals,
together with a handsome cheque for my travelling expenses. He and his
bride, whom I fucked just before she went to church, departed for
Scotland, to return by the English lakes, for their honeymoon trip. A
few days afterwards, having had two or three nights excellent fucking
with my sisters, mamma and I conducted them to their school, and left
them with tearful adieux. My mother was to remain in town for a week
until uncle and aunt's return, when she intended to accompany her
sister to the rectory and remain there until I returned from the
continent. I was quickly again in Paris. We took rooms near the two
darlings, where uncle and aunt remained for the week they had yet to
stay. We took mamma and Ellen several times to the play, and they slept
with us every night. Uncle and aunt left at the end of the week, but we
kept on the apartments for the dear women to come to us, fucking them
as much as we could. It seemed as if their pregnancy stimulated their
lubricity, for we could hardly satisfy them. We had at least always to
take them on hands and knees, although neither of them ever showed much
in front--their babes lying just between--but, by Jove, their hips
expanded splendidly. Dear mamma measured a yard across, and her
backside projected almost as much as my aunt's. She loved to be fucked
in her bottom-hole to the last. We actually had them both up to the
night before the day they were each confined. Nothing could be more
favourable than their time. As I formerly stated, each had a little
daughter.

On the ninth day afterwards they were both able to rise, but as it
would have been very prejudicial to renew our intercourse before
another three weeks had elapsed, Harry and I went off for a walking
excursion in Switzerland, which we traversed in all directions, with
continual delight at the glorious scenery. We did not touch a single
woman. When very sharp set we fucked each other, but very little even
of that, so that we renovated our constitutions and returned in robust
health, ready to do justice to the charms of the two darlings, who had
impatiently awaited our arrival.

It is needless to repeat the description of the delicious fucking with
which they welcomed us. They appeared more lovely than ever, especially
Ellen, who had developed into womanhood. We made arrangements to leave
the two darling children in the hands of a healthy wet nurse, and set
out on an expedition down the Loire to Tours, Bordeaux, and the
Pyrenees, returned at the end of September by Montpellier, Nismes,
Avignon, and Lyons.

The two babes were in excellent health. Arrangements were made for
their remaining with their foster mother for a year, and we all
returned to London together.

We had three nights' delicious fucking before they returned to the
country, and promises were made that they would come to town from time
to time to renew our orgies. My mother and aunt came up to see me
settled in my lodgings, which were taken in Norfolk Street, and I was
entered at King's College.

I passed a delicious night with aunt before she left; and ran down with
my mother to see her safe home. On my return I found my guardian had
returned. I called to pay my respects to his wife. I found her alone,
and we managed her first piece of adultery, which, as you may suppose,
was not the last. But as this third volume is already a long 'one, I
shall here close it.

The fourth will introduce us to London, and renew the delicious
intercourse with Mrs. Benson, as well as with my guardian's wife, and
our dear friend MacCallum, as well as many other friends.

END OF VOLUME III.



VOLUME IV.



CONTENTS



Jane--Ann--Mrs. Nichols--The Benson, the Egerton, and the Count--Ann,
the Nichols, and MacCallum--Aunt, Uncle, Harry, the Frankland and the
De Grandvits--Carl--The Count--The Frankland



I concluded my last volume by saying that I had taken lodgings in
Norfolk Street, Strand, for the convenience of being near King's
College. It was at the house of a Mrs. Nichols, tall, powerfully built,
masculine, but a kind and motherly looking widow of fifty-two--an
attentive and bustling landlady, looking herself to the better cooking,
and having a plain cook, who was also a general servant, to help her
downstairs, and two nieces to do the waiting and attendance on her
lodgers upstairs. The younger was there alone when I entered the
lodgings; her elder sister had had what they called a "misfortune," and
was then in the country until she could be unburthened of it. She was
expected back in about six weeks. Meanwhile, as the winter was not the
season, I was the only lodger, and the younger had only me to attend
to; her name was Jane; she was but a little thing, but very well made,
good bubbies and bottom, which I soon discovered were firm and hard,
projecting fully on both sides. She was fairly good looking, but with a
singular innocent manner of freedom about her that made me imagine she
had as yet had no chance of a "misfortune." In a week we became
intimate, and after often praising her pretty face and figure, I
snatched a kiss now and then, which at first she resented with an
attractive yet innocent sort of sauciness. It was in her struggles on
these occasions that I became aware of the firm and hard bosom and
bottom.

Up to this time my flirtations were without ulterior object, but the
reality of the attractions of these hidden charms raised my lustful
passions. I gradually increased my flatteries and caresses, squeezed
her bubbies, when I sometimes drew her on my knee and was kissing her,
and as at first she resisted my drawing her to my knee, I took occasion
to lay hold of her buttocks, which I found more developed than I could
have supposed. Gradually her resistance to these little liberties
ceased and she would quietly sit on my knee and return the kiss I gave.
Her dress was a little open in front, so from feeling her bubbies
outside, I gradually got to feeling their naked beauties inside. I now
thought I could attempt greater familiarities, so one day when seated
on my knee with one arm round her waist, I pressed her to my lips, and
while so engaged, whipt my free arm up her petticoats, and before she
had become aware of the movement, had got my hand upon her mount, a
very nicely haired one. She started up to a standing position, but as I
held her close clasped round the waist she could not get away, and her
new position enabled me the easier to get my hand between her thighs
and thus to feel her charming pouting little cunt. I began attempting
to frig her clitoris, but stooping she drew her cunt away, and looking
at me with a droll innocent expression of alarm, and with a perfect
unconsciousness of the import of her words, cried,--"Oh! take care
what you are at. You don't know how a lodger this last summer suffered
for seizing me in that way and hurting me very much. I screamed out,
aunt came up, and, do you know, he had £50 to pay for his impudence."

I could not but smile at the extraordinary innocence of the girl.

"But I do not hurt you, dear Jane," said I, "and don't mean to do so."

"That was what he said, but he went on in a most horrible way, and not
only hurt me very much, but made me bleed."

"It would not be with his hand, you see I only gently press this soft
hairy little thing. I am sure that don't hurt you."

"Oh, no! if that was all I should not mind it, it was when he pushed me
on the sofa, and pressed upon me, that he hurt me terribly, and you
must take care what you are about, or you, too, will have to pay £50."

There was a curious air of innocence in all this; it was evident to me
the fellow had got into her, and broken her hymen with violence, and
then her screams had prevented his finishing his work. Her manner
convinced me that she was really not aware of the consequences, or
rather had not as yet really had her sexual passions aroused.

"Well, my dear Jane, I neither intend to hurt you or make myself liable
to pay £50, but you will not refuse me the pleasure of feeling this
nice little hairy nest, you see how gentle I am."

"Well, if you will do me no more hurt than that I shan't refuse you,
because you are a nice kind young gentleman, and very different from
the other rough fellow, who never chattered with me and made me laugh
as you do--but you must not push your fingers up there, it was
something he pushed up there that hurt me so."

I withdrew my finger, and as, at my request, she had opened her thighs
a little, I felt and caressed her very nice little cunt, and with a
finger pressed externally above her clitoris, I could see that she
flushed and shivered on feeling me there. However, I did no more than
gently press and feel all her hairy mount and fat pouting cunt; she
said I must let her go, or her aunt would be coming up.

The first step was now gained. Gradually I progressed further and
further; felt her charming bare arse as she stood before me, got her to
let me see the beautiful curls she had got on her cunt, then came to
kissing it, until at last she opened her thighs and let me tongue it,
to her most exquisite delight. I made her spend for the first time in
her life, and soon she came to me for it. I had gradually introduced a
finger up her cunt while licking her clitoris and exciting her so much
that she was unconscious of my doing it; then two fingers, and after
she had spent deliriously, I made them perform an imitation of a throb,
which made her jump and ask what I was doing. I asked if she did not
feel that my fingers were inside of her sweet Fanny.

"You don't say so. It was there I was so hurt."

"But I do not hurt you, dear Jane?"

"Oh, dear no, it makes me feel queer, but it is very nice."

"Well, now you know that I have two fingers inside, I will use my
tongue again against your charming little clitoris, and work the
fingers in and out."

I did so, and she soon spent in an agony of delight, pressing my head
down hard on her cunt, and crying--"Oh! oh! it is too great a
pleasure!" and then died off, half insensible. Another time I repeated
this she told me not to forget to use my fingers. Having made her spend
twice I took her on my knee, and told her that I possessed an
instrument that would give her far more pleasure than tongue or finger.

"Indeed?" said she, "where is it? I should so like to see it."

"You won't tell."

"Oh, no!"

So pulling out my stiff-standing prick, she stared in amazement. She
had really never seen a prick, although it was evidently a prick that
had deflowered her, for with my fingers I had explored her cunt, and
found no hymen there. I put her hand upon it, she involuntarily grasped
it firmly.

"This enormous thing could never get into my body, look, it is thicker
than all your fingers put together, and only two fingers feel so tight."

"Yes, darling, but this dear little thing stretches, and was made to
receive this big thing."

I was exciting her clitoris with my finger, she grew evidently
lasciviously inclined, so saying, "Just let me try, and if it hurts you
I will stop; you know I am always gentle with you."

"So you are, my dear fellow, but take care not to hurt me." She lay
down on the bed, as I desired, with feet up and knees laid open. I spat
on my prick, and wetted the knob and upper shaft well, then bringing it
to her cunt, well moistened by my saliva in gamahuching her, I held
open the lips with the fingers of my left hand, and half buried its
knob before getting to the real entrance.

"Don't flinch, dearest, I shall not hurt." And I got it well over the
knob, and buried it one inch further.

"Stop!" she cried, "it seems as if it would burst me open, it so
stretches me."

"But it does not hurt you, dearest?" I had immediately stopped before
asking the question.

"No not exactly, but I feel as if something was in my throat."

"Rest a little, and that will go off." I slipped a finger down on her
clitoris, and as I frigged it she grew more and more excited, giving
delicious cunt pressures on my prick, it gradually made its way by the
gentle pushing I continued to make without other movements. It was more
than half in when she spent, this not only lubricated the interior, but
the inner muscles relaxing, a gentle shove forward housed it to the
hilt, and then I lay quiet until she recovered from the half fainting
state her last discharge had produced; soon the increased pressures of
the inner folds showed that her passions were awakening afresh. She
opened her eyes and, looking lovingly, said I had given her great
pleasure, but she felt as if something enormous was stretching her
inside to the utmost. Had I got it all in?

"Yes, dearest, and now it will be able to give you greater pleasure
than before." I began a slow withdrawal and return, frigging her
clitoris at the same time, for I was standing between her legs. She
soon grew wild with excitement, nature prompting her, her arse rose and
fell almost as well as if she was mistress of the art. The novel
combination of prick and finger quickly brought on the ecstatic crisis.
I, too, was wild with lust, and we spent together, ending in an
annihilation of all our senses by the extreme ecstasy of the final
overpowering crisis. We lay panting for some time in all the
after-joys. Dear Jane begged me to give her some water, as she felt
quite faint. I withdrew, still almost in a standing state, got her some
water, helped her up, seated her on the sofa and kissed her lovingly as
I thanked her for the exquisite joy she had given me. She threw her
arms round my neck, and with tears in her eyes told me I had taught her
the joys of heaven, and she should always love me, and I must always
love her, for now she could not live without me. I kissed and dried her
eyes, and told her we should in future enjoy it even more when she got
accustomed to it.

"Let me see the dear thing that gave me such pleasure."

I pulled it out, but it was no longer at the stand; and this surprised
her. I explained the necessity of its being so, but said she would
quickly see it rise and swell to the former size if she continued to
handle it so nicely. It rose almost before I could say as much. She
fondled it, and even stooped and kissed its ruby head. We should
quickly have got to another bout of fucking if the ringing of the call
bell had not brought us to a sense of its imprudence; so after
arranging her hair and dress, she hastily descended with some of the
breakfast things.

Of course, so good a beginning led to constant renewals and Jane
quickly became extremely amorous, and under my instruction a first-rate
fucker.

As all my dear friends were not in London, I was fortunate in having
such a _bonne bouche_ to comfort me. My sisters passed every Sunday
with me, and both got some good fucking out of me in every way, without
raising any suspicions in the house.

A month after I had taken up my residence at Mrs. Nichols's, Jane's
sister arrived. She was a much finer woman than Jane, broad shouldered,
wide-spread bosom, which, in after-days, I found had not suffered by
her "misfortune," but then she had not suckled it. Her hips were widely
projected, and she was grand and magnificent in her arse. Naturally of
a very hot temperament, when once she had tasted the magnificent weapon
I was possessed of, she grew most lasciviously lustful, and was one of
the best fuckers I ever met with. Her power of nip almost equalled by
beloved aunt's. Jane was fair, Ann was dark, with black locks and black
hairy cunt--a very long cunt, with a small tight hole in it, and above
it a wide-spread projecting mount, splendidly furnished with hair. Her
clitoris was hard and thick, but with little projection. She also
became madly fond of arse-fucking, and particularly liked me to spend
therein. This was partly to prevent any consequences leading to a
second "misfortune."

On her first arrival Jane was much afraid she would discover our
connection and we took every precaution, although I, in my heart,
wished this might occur, for as she occasionally waited on me, I grew
lecherous upon one whose charms, even covered, excited me greatly. I
always flattered and praised her magnificence of figure whenever she
came alone to me, but as Jane generally was running in and out, I did
not attempt further action. One morning I overheard Mrs. Nichols tell
Jane to put on her bonnet and go to Oxford Street on some errand; I
knew thus that Ann would attend on me, and there would be no chance of
interruption from Jane, so I determined to come at once to the point.
We had become on friendly, chatty terms, and when she had laid
breakfast I asked her to help me on with my coat, which done, I thanked
her and with one arm round her waist drew her to me and kissed her.
"Hallo!" said she, "that is something new," but did not attempt to
withdraw, so giving her another kiss, I told her what a glorious woman
she was, and how she excited me--just see. I held one of her hands, and
before she was aware, placed it on my huge prick, that bulged out of my
trousers as if it would burst its way through.

She could not help squeezing it, while she cried--"Goodness, gracious!
what an enormous thing you have got!"

Her face flushed, her eyes sparkled with the fire of lust that stirred
her whole soul. She tried to grasp it.

"Stop," said I, "and I will put it in its natural state into your hand."

So pulling it out, she seized it at once, and most lasciviously gazed
upon it, pressing it gently. She evidently was growing lewder and
lewder, so I at once proposed to fuck her, and thinking it best to be
frank, and put her at her ease, I told her that I knew she had had a
"misfortune," but if she would let me fuck her I should be on honour to
withdraw before spending, and thus avoid all chance of putting her
belly up.

She had become so randy that she felt, as she afterwards told me, she
could not refuse so splendid a prick of a size she had often dreamt of,
and longed for.

"Can I trust you?" said she.

"Safely, my dear."

"Then you may have me--let me embrace that dear object."

Stooping, she kissed it most voluptuously, shivering at the same time
in the ecstasy of a spend produced by the mere sight and touch. She
gave one or two "oh's," and drawing me to the bed by my prick, threw
herself back, pulling her petticoats up at the same time. Then I beheld
her splendid cunt in all its magnificence of size and hairiness. I sank
on my knees and glued my lips to the oozing entrance, for she was one
who spent most profusely, her cunt had the true delicious odour, and
her spunk was thick and glutinous for a woman.

I tongued her clitoris, driving her voluptuously wild. So she cried--

"Oh! do put that glorious prick into me, but remember your promise."

I brought it up to that wide-spread, large-lipped, and immense cunt. I
fully expected that big as I was I should slip in over head and
shoulders with the greatest ease. So you may imagine my surprise to
find the tightest and smallest of entrances to the inner vagina I
almost ever met with, it was really with greater difficulty I effected
an entrance than I had with her little sister, whose cunt presented no
such voluptuous grandeur. It was as tight a fit as Ellen's was to me on
our first coition. Tight as it was, it gave her nothing but the most
exquisite pleasure, she was thoroughly up to her work, and was really
one of the most voluptuous and lascivious fuckers I have ever met with,
excellent as my experience has been. I made her, with fucking and
frigging, spend six times before I suddenly withdrew my prick, and
pressing its shaft against her wet lips, and my own belly, spent
deliciously outside. Shortly after it rose again, and this time after
making her spend as often as before, for she was most voluptuously
lustful, when I withdrew, she suddenly got from under me, and seizing
its shaft with one hand, stooped and took its knob between her lips,
and quickly made me pour a flood of sperm into her mouth, which she
eagerly swallowed and sucked on to my great delight.

We should have had a third bout but for the necessity of her going down
to her aunt.

I breakfasted, then rang to take away. Again we had a delicious fuck,
and a third when she came to make the bed and empty the slops. This
third time I begged her to kneel on the sofa, and let me see her
gloriously grand arse, and when I had to retire I would show her a way
that would continue both our pleasure. So after fucking her from
behind, and making her spend far oftener than me, I withdrew, and
pushing it up between the lips over the clitoris, with my hand round
her waist, I pressed it tightly against her cunt and clitoris, and
continued to wriggle my arse, made her spend again as I poured a flood
all up over her belly. She declared it was almost as good as if inside.

After this very shortly I proposed to push its nose into her
bottom-hole, and just spend within.

With reluctance at first, it ended in her not only liking the point
there, but deliciously enjoying my whole prick within, and eventually
it was always the receptacle of a first discharge induced by fucking,
and a second fuck completely carried on in that more secret altar of
lust. She became a first-rate _enculeuse_.

It soon happened that both sisters knew of the other enjoying me, and
it ended in their slipping down from their attic, where both slept in
the same bed, to my room, and we had most delicious fucking and double
gamahuching.

Ann was by far the finest and the most lascivious fuck, but little Jane
had a certain charm of youth and also of freshness, which got her a
fair share of my favours.

We carried this on for several weeks until use made us careless and
noisy.

The aunt, when no lodgers occupied the room, slept overhead, and,
probably being sleepless one morning, when it was early daylight, heard
our voices, came down and surprised me in the very act of fucking Ann
and gamahuching Jane, who stood above her and presented her cunt to my
lecherous tongue. A loud exclamation from their aunt roused us up at
once.

"Get to bed, you dreadful hussies."

They fled without a moment's hesitation.

Mrs. Nichols then began to remonstrate with me on the infamy of my
conduct. I approached the door apparently to get my shirt, for I was
stark naked, but in fact to shut and lock my door, and then to turn on
Mrs. Nichols, who apparently had quite forgotten she had only her short
shift on, which not only allowed the full display of very fine, firm,
and ample bubbles, but not falling below the middle of her thighs,
showed remarkably well made legs and small knees, with the swelling of
immense thighs just indicated.

My stiff-standing prick in full vigour, and if anything, still more
stimulated by the unexpected beauties shown by Mrs. Nichols, I turned
upon her and seizing her round the waist from behind, pushed her
forward, and before she could recover herself I had hauled up her
"cutty sark," seen a most magnificent arse, and into her cunt--not
without somewhat painful violence, before she could recover from the
surprise of the attack.

She screamed out murder, but there was no one who could hear but the
girls, and they knew better than to interrupt me. I kept fucking away
in spite of cries, and passing an arm round her body, with my finger I
got to her clitoris, which sprang out into considerable proportions. My
big prick and the frigging of her clitoris produced their natural
result. In spite of herself she grew full of lust. I felt her cunt
pressures, and knew how her passions were rising. Speedily, in place of
resisting, she began to cry, "Oh, oh," and breathe hard, and then most
gloriously wriggled her splendid arse, and as I spent she too was taken
in the delicious ecstasy of the final crisis. She lay throbbing on my
delighted prick until it stood as stiff as before. I began a slow
movement, she made no resistance, except crying out, "Oh! dear, oh!
dear," as if in spite of regrets, she could not help enjoying it;
indeed, at last she said--

"Oh! what a man you are, Mr. Roberts; it is very wrong of you to do
this, but I cannot resist enjoying it myself. It is years since I did
such a thing, but as you have done it, it makes me wish you should do
it again. Let us change position."

"Very well, but you must throw off this tiresome chemise, or I won't
withdraw."

As her lust was so excited, she made no objection, so withdrawing we
stood up; she drew her shift over her head, and displayed a far more
splendid form, with an exquisitely fair and dimpled skin, than I could
have thought possible.

"My dear Mrs. Nichols, what a fine perfect form you have got, let me
embrace you in my arms."

She was nothing loath, flattered by my praise. She laid hold of my cock
with one hand, and closely clasped me with the other arm, while I threw
an arm and hand round on her truly magnificent arse, and with my other
hand pressed on a wonderful pair of bubbles as hard and firm as any
maid of eighteen. Our mouths met in a loving kiss, our tongues
exchanged endearments. She said--

"You have made me very wicked, let me have this enormous and dear
fellow again."

I said I must first gaze on all her beauties, especially on her
gorgeous and enormous bottom. She turned herself round in every way,
delighted to find that I so ardently admired her.

She then lay down on her back, and spread wide her legs, and called to
me to mount and put it in.

"First I must kiss this beautiful cunt, and suck this superb clitoris."

Her mount was covered with closely curled brown silky locks; her cunt
was large with grand thick lips and well-haired sides. Her clitoris
stood out quite three inches, red and stiff. I took it in my mouth,
sucked it, and frigged her cunt with two fingers, which went in with
the greatest ease, but were nipped tightly the moment the entrance was
gained, and I frigged and sucked until she spent madly with absolute
screams of delight. I continued to suck and excite her, which quickly
made her cry out--

"Oh, darling boy, come and shove your glorious prick into my longing
cunt."

I sprang up and buried him until our two hairs were crushed between us.
She held me tight for a minute without moving, then went off like a
wild _Bacchante_, and uttered voluptuous bawdy expressions.

"Shove your delicious prick further and harder. Oh, you are killing me
with delight."

She was a perfect mistress of the art, gave me exquisite pleasure, and,
I may add, proved afterwards a woman of infinite variety, and became
one of my most devoted admirers. Our intrigue continued for years,
while her age, as is the case with good wine, only appeared to improve
her. Her husband was not a bad fucker, but having only a small prick,
had never stimulated her lust as my big splitter had done.

We had on this first occasion three other good fucks, which she seemed
to enjoy more and more.

As I had previously fucked the girls pretty well, my prick at last
refused to rise and perform. We had to stop fucking, but I gamahuched
her once more after again posing her, and admiring her really
wonderfully well made and well-preserved body. She had a good suck at
my cock, without bringing him up again.

At last we separated, but not before she made a promise that she would
sleep with me that night, and a glorious night we had. I had the more
difficult task of reconciling her to my having her nieces. I used to
have them one night, and sleep with her the next.

Ann, as I have said, was one of the lewdest and most lascivious women I
had ever known. I had told them of the beauty of their aunt's whole
person, and of her wonderful clitoris, and how she liked me to
gamahuche it. This awakened the tribadic passions of Ann to gamahuche
her aunt.

I, at last, persuaded her to let Ann join us, and both were afterwards
extremely glad I had done so, for both were thorough tribades, and
lasciviously enjoyed each other, while being fucked by me in turns.
Mrs. Nichols too, once she got used to arse-fucking, delighted in it,
and we had the wildest orgies together.

Meanwhile, my very dear friend MacCallum had returned to town. He lived
in the outskirts, but had taken a small set of chambers at Lyon's Inn,
a sitting-room and bedroom, where he had a complete library of bawdy
books and pictures to excite to new efforts passions palled with
excess. It was here I took my sisters, and every Sunday we four,
stripped to the buff, indulged in every excess the wildest lust could
prompt.

At Christmas, uncle, aunt, the Dales, and Ellen all came to town, and
taking the same rooms with others that uncle and Mrs. Dale and her son
had formerly down in Norfolk Street, we had the most glorious orgies.

I confessed that I had debauched my sisters during the weary months I
had been left alone with them, and advised their initiation into our
society. Uncle greedily snatched at the idea, so did aunt and Harry
Dale, but his mother and Ellen rather discouraged it. However, the
majority had it, and aunt went to the school, and took them away for
the holidays. I had instructed them to keep up the idea of a late
initiation by me, and how much they liked it when done, carefully
avoiding the least reference to former freedoms.

They afforded a very effective aid to the wild variety of our orgies.
Uncle especially affected them, and was never tired of fucking, sucking
or gamahuching their splendid charms. Aunt, whose lech was for fresh
young women, was unbounded in her admiration and tribadic use of their
bodies.

I made a confident of Harry Dale about our re-unions at MacCallum's,
and, with the latter's leave, introduced him to our orgies in the Inn.

MacCallum took greatly to the fine tight arse of young Dale. He also
wished to have Ellen introduced. I took occasion to break the matter to
her, and in the end she made a delicious addition to those private
orgies. In March Mrs. Benson, Mrs. Egerton, and husbands came up to
town.

I had written to the Benson, and got a note from her the moment she
arrived. I called immediately, and finding her alone, her husband
having gone to the city, was received with delight. After flying into
each other's arms, nature was too fierce for any amorous preliminaries.
A sofa received our ardent bodies, and before one could think, legs
were opened, cunt invaded, and a most rapid fuck, too rapid for luxury,
was run off. Then while recovering from our first delirium of pleasure,
we had time for a few words of mutual praise and admiration of
improvements in both; but it was not until I had fucked her four times,
and made her spend at least twice as often, that we found time to enter
into close converse upon past events.

I had known by letter of the intrigue with the Count, Mrs. Egerton, and
herself, and now heard, from her own mouth, more exciting details. She
told me how Mrs. Egerton was eager to possess my unusually great prick,
adding--

"By the way, she must be alone at this hour. Come along, we may have
some fun to-day."

I had not seen Mrs. Egerton for many years, in fact, for long before I
had fucked Mrs. Benson. We went. Her reception was all I could wish.

Mrs. Benson told us to lose no time, but to run off at least an
introductory embrace when the field was so clear. Mrs. Egerton made no
objection; the Benson acted mistress of the ceremonies, pulled out my
prick and lifted the Egerton's petticoats, turning both sides to view,
and making the Egerton handle and admire the nobleness of my prick,
then telling her to kneel and present her fat arse to my lustful gaze,
guided my longing prick into her really delicious cunt; and a most
excellent fuck we had, which, as Mrs. Benson said, would put us at our
ease in an interview she had planned for next day, in which the Count
was to join us, and telling me I should have to show my mettle to rival
the Count.

We met next day at a quiet house in Percy Street, Tottenham Court Road.
The ladies had gone to the Soho Bazaar, leaving their carriage in Soho
Square, going out by another entrance in a back street, and driving up
in a cab to us in Percy Street.

At an evening call I had made, to be introduced to Mr. Egerton, I had
met and been introduced to the Count. We had walked home as far as his
apartments, in Berners Street, and arranged to meet in Percy Street,
before the arrival of our beautiful and dear friends. Thus we were
impatiently awaiting their coming when they arrived.

It is needless to say no sooner had they entered, and the mere embrace
and kiss of welcome been given, than they retired to another room,
opening into the one where we 'were, to take off all encumbrances to
the wildest lust, while we, too, disencumbered ourselves of all our
clothes. We were quicker than they were, and the Count was in the act
of handling and admiring the grandeur of my prick when the two
beautiful creatures entered in nature's only robe, and well might we
exclaim--

"Woman, when unadorned is adorned the most," for two more beautiful
women or more perfectly lovely in shape could hardly be seen. Women,
too, as voluptuous and lascivious in their passions as any of their sex
could be, and it was now our delight to enjoy and satisfy their ardent
lust by fucking them in every way, as well as for the first time giving
them the joy of having two real pricks in them at once. The charming
Benson, as my original initiator in love's mysteries, claimed my first
embrace, the Count fucking Mrs. Egerton. We were so placed that each
could see the other, and thus enjoy the excitement of the scene. The
dear creatures spent thrice to our once.

Then the Egerton claimed me while the Count refilled the cunt I had
just quitted.

Again we made them spend thrice to our once. They preferred these
preliminary encounters to the more lascivious excesses we were about to
enter upon as exciting and preparing their passions for more voluptuous
embraces.

Both the dear creatures loved a prick _in culo_ from time to time, but
as yet they had not had the opportunity of having a prick in each
aperture at once.

The Egerton, to whom my prick was as yet a novelty, said she must have
it in her cunt while the Count planted his lesser but very fine prick
in her arse.

The Count's prick was quite as long, or nearly so, as mine, and even
thicker close to the roots, but tapered up to a small pointed knob, so
that for the _enculage_ he had greater facility, than my huge-knobbed
affair, whose head was as thick as any part of it. This difference of
formation made the dear creatures both prefer my prick in front while
the Count attacked them in the rear. They generally each got two, with
me below and the Count above. But, although it was at first somewhat
painful when my huge prick took the rearward side with the Count in
front, they soon got accustomed to it, although invariably beginning,
after our preliminary fucking, with the Count first _in culo_.

The Egerton, as I said before, made her first trial of two pricks
fucking her at once, by having me below her. I had laid down on my
back, she straddled over me, the Benson claimed the place of
conductress to the instruments of pleasure, and, first giving a suck to
my prick, she guided it into the delicious cunt of her friend, who sank
down upon my stiff-standing prick, deliciously impaling herself
thereon, and went off in a voluptuous discharge on feeling its huge
head engulphed to the utmost; she rose and fell upon it in an upright
position, until she had spent a second time, and had brought up her
passion to the wildest rage of lust, then falling into my longing arms,
she called out to the Count to shove his prick at once into her arse.

The Benson had, meanwhile, sucked and moistened the Count's fine prick,
making him as eager as the Egerton to be into her beautiful arsehole.
The Benson conducted it to the divine entrance of that rapture-giving
receptacle, which he entered at first with little difficulty, but as
the thickening of his prick by its further entrance began to stretch
the tender folds between our two pricks, the Egerton cried out for a
momentary pause, as it was producing the strange sensation that one
prick alone produces in the earlier stage of sodomitic embraces.

The Benson came to her aid by desiring the Count to withdraw about half
the distance he had gained and having whipt up some warm soapsuds she
well wetted his lower shaft and then he more easily recovered lost
ground, and gained a complete lodgement within the tremendously
stretched affair, for as I have said, the lower part of his shaft was
thicker than I could grasp.

The Egerton felt as if the two apertures were about to be torn into
one, and cried out for a few minutes' cessation.

We both lay still, beyond the involuntary throbbing of our pricks,
pressed as they were against each other, for the at-all-times-thin
membrane dividing cunt from arsehole was now stretched to the fineness
of gold leaf, and to our sensations did not appear to exist at all.

These double throbbings soon stirred up all the wild lubricity of the
Egerton's nature, first showing itself in the responsive inward
pressures of the delicate widely stretched folds of both receptacles,
then increasing in fiery lust, she cried out for us to begin gently our
first movements. We drew in and out in unison together, at first
slowly, but the Egerton finding that we were producing the most
excessive delight to her double-gorged receptacles, cried out--

"Oh! oh! It is heavenly; fuck faster, you angelic fuckers. I--Oh!
faster, faster. Oh! oh! it is too much."

She spent in such an agony of ecstasy as to faint clean away.

We were not aware of this, not having ourselves spent as we had only
paused to let her enjoy her most heavenly discharge to the utmost.
Then, first with throbs, and then with in and outward movements, we
soon recovered her from her trance of excessive joy. Her passions were
more violently stirred than before. She wriggled her arse convulsively
sideways, she raved in the grossest bawdy terms, and so excited us that
we all three came to the final crisis in wild cries of the grossest
lust, and died away in an agony of bliss, so overpowering that we lay,
almost insensible, soaking in the sacred vases in which were compressed
our well-satisfied pricks. Meanwhile the Benson, wildly excited by the
scene enacted below her eyes, sought relief by kneeling beyond my head,
for we always fucked on the floor with mattresses spread widely around;
she then backed her splendid arse over my head, and brought her cunt to
my mouth, and I had gamahuched her continuously until my own delicious
spending annihilated all power of movement for the time being.

The Egerton, in the agony of her pleasure at the moment of the last
spend, had fastened her teeth on the glorious arse of the Benson before
her, and bit so hard as actually to draw blood and make the Benson
spring forward with a sudden start and cry. But we were all too lost in
the ecstatic joys to even hear the cry of pain she uttered.

At last the Egerton gave signs of returning life. The Benson had risen
and was eager for her turn, but Mrs. Egerton implored that she might
have once again a taste of these more than heavenly joys while both
pricks were still engulfed within her and thus avoid the pain of
entrance.

This was so reasonable that the Benson yielded with a good grace.

The Count, to indemnify her, begged her to stride over our two bodies,
so as to bring her delicious cunt to his mouth, which, as he was
kneeling, was just at the proper level; so he gamahuched, and embracing
her splendid arse, postillioned her at the same time; thus we were a
chain of delight.

This bout was drawn out to great length.

The Egerton must have spent half-a-dozen times, and when we both at
last jammed our pricks up in the ferocity of lust, making all three
give down life's essence in an almost killing ecstasy, she really
fainted quite away, and so alarmed us that we withdrew to use such
remedies as were at hand to bring her to; even then she was quite
hysterical. We laid her in the bed; she was relieved by a copious flood
of tears, which she assured us were those of joy at the exquisite and
overpowering delights we had conferred upon her. She begged us now to
gratify the Benson with the same ecstatic joys we had bestowed upon
her, and she would be a quiet, and delighted spectator of our doings.

It was now my own loved Mrs. Benson's turn to experience the
inexpressible delights of the double junction. From her love of my
splendid splitter, of which she had taken the first sweets, and which
had been initiated in her deliciously adulterous cunt into the divine
mysteries of love, and the still more sacred and secret joys of the
second altar dedicated to the worship of Priapean unutterably sensual
raptures; from this circumstance and the constant use of the rear
receptacle practised by her husband, whose prick was a very fine one,
the initiation into the _double jouissance_ was less nervously effected
than with the less used arsehole of the more delicate Egerton, but at
the same time two such pricks operating at once made her wince a little
before we were fairly engulphed to the cods, the banging together of
which in their close proximity added greatly to the stimulating of our
lust.

The sweet Benson lent herself most readily to the work, and seconded us
by her art in wriggling her arse and the delicious cunt and sphincter
pressures; enjoying herself at once and more rapidly than the Egerton,
she got four delicious discharges before our somewhat more sluggish
senses would allow us to come to the grand final crisis, which seemed
to stimulate the divine Benson to a point of raving lust, which showed
itself in cries of the grossest bawdy; shouting to us to shove our
pricks in further and faster, calling us all the loudest blackguard
names she could put her tongue to--absolutely roaring as the final
discharge seized her in the very same instant that we poured floods of
sperm into both interiors, she then sank, annihilated by the excess of
the voluptuous delights conferred upon her, but lay throbbing and
pulsating in all the after-joys of the utmost venereal satisfaction. We
lay long in this delicious inanition of such voluptuous excesses.

The darling Benson exercised her delicious "nippers" in both orifices,
which soon had their expected effect, and shortly the flesh gave
symptoms of its "resurrection" to mundane joys, after having passed
through the heavenly delights of Paradise, truly rising from the most
delicious graves in which they were lying so exquisitely buried. Like
her lovely predecessor she was eager for more, and if it were possible
our second course was superior to the first, at all events it was
longer drawn out, for the previous draughts on our slackening
appendages made the further delivery an effort requiring longer
pumping, and thus swelled the amount of pleasure by lengthening the
process before arriving at the grand final crisis.

The Benson, much more ungovernable in her passion than we were, must
have spent six or seven times in our last effort, and died away in, if
anything, greater abandon than in our first course, and eventually sank
completely overcome by the entire satisfaction of her raging lust for
the time being. We, too, both wanted a respite, so we all rose.

The two dear creatures when once on their legs found instant necessity
to evacuate their rear receptacles of the double cargo taken in, and
disappeared for a few minutes.

We all purified ourselves and well laved everything with ice cold water
to reanimate them the sooner. We then sat down to a stimulating
refreshment, in which we at least all drank a bottle of Champagne
apiece, in the midst of delightful and exciting bawdy wit and obscene
stories, in which our darling _fouteuses_ showed a witty proficiency.

In half an hour we began to take up our positions. It was my turn to
take them in the rear, but both begged off for that day. The pause for
refreshment had given time to make them feel sore after the great
stretching they had undergone for the first time, so my turn was
delayed for three days, that being the usual delay in their orgies to
prevent suspicion by too frequent absences, but not excluding any
opportunity that might occur for a rack-off in the mean time. So we
only each fucked them once and closed our exquisite orgy for that day;
parting with every expression of fully satisfied desires, and the
warmest kisses and embraces.

The Count and I walked to his apartments to refresh ourselves there
with hot tumblers of toddy; whiskey being a great favourite of his,
and, in his opinion, the best restorative after our exhausting efforts
with the two insatiable creatures.

He congratulated himself on my accession to these orgies, as being a
great relief to the burden he had had in satisfying both in both ways
when all alone with them.

However, the Count was an indefatigable and an unwearied fucker, but
two such insatiable cunts often had tried his powers to the utmost, and
was more than he liked to do at the interview, so he had found whiskey
toddy a remedy at once efficacious and agreeable. I myself with my
private excesses at home was glad to know so pleasant a restorative.
The Count and I became the most intimate and attached friends; through
him I perfected myself in Italian, and not many years after this,
passed some happy months with him in Italy after he had been amnestied,
returned to his country and recovered part of his once large property,
but of that hereafter.

I called next day on my adored Benson, who had developed into a
glorious woman, more lovely and lustful than ever.

We had but a moment to ourselves, and could not use it for amatory
purposes but as we both had much to relate we agreed to meet at our
house in Percy Street the next day.

This house was taken furnished for love purposes only, and merely an
old woman was kept to take care of and arrange matters when we were
gone; it was held in the Count's name but paid for by the two fair
users of it. They had latch keys each, and the place was kept ready for
everyday use.

The dear libidinous Benson avowed that she used it for other lovers
unknown to the Count or the Egerton; paying the old woman liberally,
she had all her own way.

We met there the next day, rushing into each other's arms, and then
assisting in the undressing we had three exquisite fucks, during which
the delighted Benson spent seven times, and then we could have a long
and uninterrupted talk over old times, and my after-doings. I told her
all, and how the Vincent, my elder sister, Miss Frankland, my aunt, and
Mrs. Dale had all thought me an innocent, receiving his first lesson in
their delicious cunts, and how true and wise had been her sage
counsels. She listened in wonder and delight, drew from me descriptive
pictures of our conjunctions and thrice interrupted my narrative to
have a delicious fuck to calm the excitement raised by the lascivious
descriptions of my acts with all those most glorious women. I told her
also of my intrigue at my lodgings with the two sisters and the Count.

My description of the latter set her off in raging lust, and produced
another most excellent fuck. But afterwards she told me I must find
other quarters in some place where Mrs. Egerton and she, or either of
them, could call and receive comfort without observation.

I told her I was inscribed for chambers in the Inner Temple, which I
had reason to believe I should get in a week or two. This much pleased
her, and it will be seen that I succeeded in getting just such a set as
exactly suited the great object in view, approachable without being
under the observation of others; commodious and agreeable, where all
that the dear Benson wished to be added to our set were brought
together, and the wildest orgies of the most insatiable lust were
carried on.

My description of my aunt, of Mrs. Dale, and especially of Miss
Frankland, now Mrs. Nixon, excited all the tribadic passions for which
the dear Benson was so famous.

Her clitoris, which was formerly prominent, was more so now, and she
dearly loved to gamahuche her own sex. In that way she took a great
fancy to my sisters, especially Eliza, who had all the same instincts
very decidedly pronounced. So we had the prospect of the most
consummate orgies in 'near view, and most gloriously in the end we
realised our wildest expectations.

In men we were more restricted; the Count would only consent to have
Harry Dale and my uncle in any orgy of which he formed part. He was
nervously timid about his sodomistic tendencies being known to many,
and only yielded on account of the relationship and the closer ties of
Harry Dale and myself, who eventually shared my chambers, and we lived
together, so that perforce he was obliged to put up with his presence.

He soon came to delight in having Harry's prick in his bottom when
fucking others at our orgies. It will thus be seen that the Count's
timid exclusiveness shut out from these family orgies my dear and
esteemed friend and master MacCallum More. However, in a certain sense,
it was an advantage, as we had at least the pick of the young ones, in
my two sisters and Ellen, who wanted very little persuasion to join our
Lyon's Inn orgies. And our excellent friend had some of his own set,
both male and female, to meet us either with one, two or all, for we
could not always manage to have the whole of the dear creatures
together. En revanche, dear MacCallum had several youthful ganymedes,
whose tight young bottom-holes were a great solace when cunts were
altogether absent.

We thus had two distinct and separate sets of orgies, which had all the
natural effect of novelty, and by exciting comparison, making us turn
from one to the other with renewed passions and power of enjoyment.

As my sisters could only come on Sundays, that was our exclusive day,
and we made an entire day of it, but I, in the end, persuaded Ann to
join our orgies with MacCallum, and she proved a first-rate addition in
every way.

I have already stated that she was of a most libidinous temperament,
and developed into one of the most lascivious and lustful of women one
could possibly find, and as she had rare beauties and splendour of
form, she was made to raise the most raging lust in man or woman, for
she, too, was as fond of tribadic indulgencies as my aunt or the
delicious Frankland. Her position as a servant prevented our
introducing her to Ellen or my sisters. As a matter of worldly prudency
it was best not to trust her with the knowledge of their complying with
all our lustful demands on their charming persons.

The Count, myself, and our two charming lovers met on the appointed day
to renew our delicious orgies. After both of us had fucked each dear
creature came the _double jouissance_.

We took the adorable Benson first, that the scene of our erotic sports
might stir the lust of the darling Egerton to a greater heat. It was my
turn to lay my offering on the secret altar of Priapus, while the Count
filled her cunt with delight.

As I have before said, the arsehole of the Benson was much more used
that that of the Egerton, whose husband never dreamt of such a horror,
as she would call it. Mr. Benson, on the contrary, delighted in it, and
seldom passed a night without paying his devoirs to that delicious
aperture. So, although it was but the second time she had indulged in
the _double jouissance_, yet her lust enabled her to take in with
greater ease my big prick in her arsehole, with the Count's fine prick
in front, than when our parts were reversed. She revelled in the wild
fury of raging lust, created by the glorious ecstasy of having a prick
in each aperture--screamed with wild cries of heavenly joy, spent
furiously, and eventually died away in an overpowering and
indescribable felicity. She soon recovered her senses, and begged for
another bout before withdrawing. Of course there was immediate
compliance and another more soul-killing encounter was run off with the
usual death-like termination.

I had continuously gamahuched the Egerton who straddled over the two
bodies below her, and brought her delicious cunt to my mouth, while my
arms encircled her beautifully formed and cream-like coloured buttocks,
at the same time acting postillion with two fingers to increase her
lustful gratification.

We purified ourselves after this, and drank some Champagne, then
standing stiff at the prospect of now possessing the lovely body of the
Egerton, we took up the same position as before, the Count under, in
cunt, the Egerton above, with her deliciously fair arse exposed to my
embraces first, and my big prick afterwards.

The adored Benson gave it a suck first, and well wetting the knob,
guided it to the narrow entrance of love's secret bower. Its head was
soon housed, and although still creating strange feelings, the previous
day's attack had made the entrance more facile.

With little halting we drove on to the first delicious discharge. The
second bout was all divine pleasure, and ever after the delicious
Egerton enjoyed it completely.

These delicious orgies with these two lovely women were indulged in on
every third day.

I became a favourite with both their husbands, thanks to a kind of
sheepish innocence that I had the power of putting on.

At the same time as my education had been well attended to and as I
myself was fond of study, attentive to my college instruction, and
anxious for a knowledge of foreign languages, I had become fairly
proficient in German and Spanish, and well read in French and Italian.
The latter was perfected by the Count's friendship, as we were much
together and spoke nothing else. Perhaps it was this which led to a
greater friendship for me on the part of Mr. Egerton, who was an
excellent Italian scholar. His wife's intrigue with the Count had also
perfected her, so that when we all four dined together Italian was the
only language spoken among us.

The dear Benson, too, was a perfect mistress of the Count's tongue, as
well she might, having it so often in her mouth; and as it is a soft
language that lends itself to love and lust, it became ours in all our
orgies.

The delicious Frankland, now Mrs. Nixon, returned to town with the
spring. By that time I was established in my chambers in the Inner
Temple, and had them simply furnished, but with every accessory for
love's combats in couples, or in the wildest orgies. The adorable
Benson inaugurated and dedicated them to the service of holy mother
Venus and her son Cupid, as well as the more lustful Eros.

The Egerton and the Count afterwards came to consecrate them to the
worship of Priapus, and we had a most delicious orgy on that sacred
celebration.

It was on this occasion that those two wild lustful creatures insisted
on seeing the Count and me in conjunction together. The Benson guided
me into the Count's bottom, while he was in the bottom of the Egerton,
and the Egerton conducted the Count into my bottom while I was
luxuriating in the delicious arsehole of my adored Benson. It satisfied
a longing desire on their parts to see man with man, and did not
displease either the Count or myself, who, in our secret hearts, had
each wished to possess the other.

The Count was a powerful and very hairy man, and had an especially very
full hairy arsehole, which to me was wildly exciting.

In that I differed from my dear friend MacCallum, who loved bare-arsed
youths with no hair there, telling me that coarse hairy arsed men
rather disgusted him, and although in his wide sodomitic experience he
had had such, it was with a certain repugnance that went against the
grain.

In that I differed from him entirely, the hairier and the coarser a
man's arsehole was the more it excited me. In that respect the Count
was exactly to my taste. He was very hairy all up the chink of his
arse, and had a very coarse skin and an almost black arsehole, so deep
a brown it was, the very sight of which always drove me mad with lust.

He as much loved me from another cause. His great letch was to frig a
fine prick while buggering the possessor, hence, as he had never met
with so fine a one as mine, he was insatiably fond of being into me and
frigging me at the same time.

We thus had two points of private attraction, that made us become the
closest of friends, but we did not let any of our dear female
participants know of the mutual joys of which they were not
participants.

The superb Frankland, now my guardian's wife, also came alone to my
chambers, and we had a renewal of all our wildest experiences. She told
me it was such a comfort to her, for although her husband, Mr. Nixon,
was very loving, and did all he could, still it was nothing but
exciting her to long for others, especially for my own huge prick, of
which she never knew but that she had been the first initiator of it
into love's delicious recess in either sacred grove.

So fresh and eager as she was for the fray you may easily imagine the
wild excess we indulged in, sucking, gamahuching, fucking, and
buggering. I cannot tell how often in every way her exciting and
glorious body carried me away to an excess beyond anything I could have
thought myself capable of.

When fairly exhausted, and we could uninterruptedly talk over all that
had occurred since I had left my mother's house, she heard in full
detail, for the first time, all my adventures.

I had given her, at the time of her marriage, a hint of how matters had
gone, yet without any details, which now she was voracious to hear. I
told her of my aunt's and uncle's apparent seduction of me, nor did I
hide our goings-on with young Dale, and my after-possession of Ellen
and his mother, who was the last to believe herself my seducer, for as
I told the delicious Frankland (I can never bear to call her Nixon), I
had followed her sage advice, and up to the Dale had played off the
innocent game with perfect success; but now that I was a man I threw
all that overboard.

"Indeed," said she, "and who have you been throwing it overboard with."

I laughed at her ready taking of me up, and then went on to a full
confession of all my intrigues.

She did not like my having taken up with the two servants, the nieces
of my late landlady, thinking it derogatory in one endowed with a prick
that any lady would be too glad to possess, but she was very much
struck with my description of the superb body and wonderful lubricity
of the Nichols.

It excited her much, especially when I told her that she had given me
the idea of her near approach in body and wantonness to herself.

It will be seen hereafter to what a closer alliance with the Nichols
this led. Pressing her enquiries, I acknowledged my intrigue with the
Benson, Egerton, and Count. This evidently excited her lust, as I could
see by the wild sparkle of her eye. It led to an immediate and
delicious fuck, and when recovered from its ecstatic finish, to closer
and more searching enquiry as to how I got into such intimacy, but I
had expected this somewhat jealous scrutiny, and was quite prepared for
it. I led her to believe they had been here nearly all the winter. I
told her my mother had desired me to call and see the Bensons as
friends of hers. I had done so. The Bensons quickly observed how
largely I was furnished, very soon gave me encouragement, of which I
did not want much after the late intercourse I had had with herself,
aunt, and Mrs. Dale.

Thus matters came quickly to their natural conclusion. She was
perfectly astonished at my powerful weapon, and as she and her dearest
friend already shared lovers, I was quickly introduced to her friend
Mrs. Egerton, and they had me together, and let me into the secret of
their intrigue with the Count, which was followed by my initiation into
their orgies.

My praises of these two ladies, and my saying how glorious it would be
for her to make a fifth, and my description of the exquisite body and
the tribadic tendencies of Mrs. Benson, fired her wild imagination, and
woke up all her tribadic lusts, and it ended in her begging me to give
a luncheon at my chambers to the Benson and the Egerton, that she might
be introduced to them, more especially as they really moved in a
society somewhat higher than Mr. Nixon's connections, although, in
point of wealth, the Nixons were far superior.

The little luncheon came off most agreeably. The ladies all took to
each other most warmly; seeing which, I boldly broke the ice, and
telling the Benson and Egerton that dear Mrs. Nixon was my first
initiator in love's mysteries, and as had both of them, the wisest
thing we could do would be to throw away all restraint and have a
jollification all round. To set them at their ease--for there was a
momentary hesitation--I pulled out my prick at full stand, and said--

"There's a prick worthy of all your exquisite cunts, and one, too, that
has enjoyed them all, and been enjoyed by every one of you. So throw
away all hesitation and let him enjoy you all again. Who is to have it
first?"

They laughed, and all approached and handled it, interchanging their
opinions upon its being the very finest one that any of them had ever
seen.

"Ah, now," said I, "that is just the thing, you are at once put at
ease, then let us do it with ease; strip is the word, and let us have
it luxuriously."

They laughed, kissed each other, and said the dear fellow must have his
way, and all at once proceeded to undress. The glorious and wonderfully
hairy body of the Frankland perfectly astonished them, and raised their
tribadic passions to fever heat, especially the Benson, who threw
herself on that glorious form in an ecstasy of delight, more especially
as the Frankland's passions being excited, her long red clitoris stood
out from the dense black mass of hair which covered not only her belly
and mount, but all down and around her cunt. Nothing would satisfy the
Benson but an immediate mutual gamahuche, for, with true tribadic
instinct, these two beautiful and libidinous women divined their mutual
letch for that particular lascivious inclination, and at once
proceeded, one on the top of the other, to wildly gamahuche each other.
The Egerton and myself seized the opportunity of having a delicious
fuck together, which we brought to a conclusion before the others had
satisfied their immediate desires.

The Frankland, who at first was under, was now above, and as she knelt
and pushed out her stupendous arse to bring her cunt over the Benson's
mouth, the sight of its hairy arsehole roused my desire to fuck it, and
my cock responded instantly, so kneeling behind her, I introduced it to
the well-known receptacle, and to her infinite additional delight,
sodomised her to perfection. This was another means of putting them all
at ease, and I fucked and buggered them all until neither handling nor
suction could get my prick to raise his head again.

You may easily imagine after this how delighted they were to make the
glorious Frankland a participator in our orgies with the Count. Nor
shall I forget the wild gaze of surprise and lust when the Count first
beheld the splendid and hairy form of the glorious Frankland when she
entered the room in all the dazzling splendour of her perfect
nakedness. These two natures were made for each other, both salacious
to a degree, both vigorous in body and untiring in the most libidinous
excesses of the wildest lust. Both hairy to a degree, showing the
meaning of that vast display all over both their bodies. They were
instantly attracted to each other, flew into the closest of embraces,
and sinking on the floor where they met, two strokes were racked off
before they came to a state of more moderation, amenable to our general
operations. It had been all the same an exciting scene to us.

The Benson was madly stimulated by the sight of the Frankland's superb
body; her long red clitoris, not satisfied with the double rack-off
with the Count, appeared only to be more excited, and stirred the whole
soul of the adorable Benson. She threw herself in reverse upon the
Frankland before she had time to raise herself, seized with her mouth
the wonderful clitoris, called upon me to fuck her from behind, and
then with fingers up arsehole and cunt worked furiously. The dear
Frankland responded on the fine clitoris of the Benson, and
postillioned me at the same time. We ran off two bouts in this
delicious position, and then with more regulated passions rose to form
more general combinations.

The Count had fucked the Egerton while we were engaged above the divine
Frankland. Our first pose was suggested by the Egerton, who had been as
yet less fucked than any. She had been also greatly taken with the
glories of the Frankland's superb body, and especially struck with her
extraordinary clitoris, and had taken the curious letch of wishing to
have it in her bottom-hole while riding St. George on my big prick. We
all laughed at her odd choice, but agreed at once, especially the
Frankland, whose greatest letch was to fuck very fair young women with
her long and capable clitoris. A fairer creature than the lovely
Egerton could not be found. The Frankland admitted that in her inmost
heart she had longed thus to have the Egerton from the moment she had
first seen her, and her delight and surprise at finding the dear
Egerton had equally desired to possess her, fired her fierce lust with
increased desire. I lay down, the Egerton straddled over, and feeling
the delight of my huge prick when completely imbedded, she spent
profusely with only two rebounds. Then sinking on my belly she
presented her lovely arse to the lascivious embraces of the salacious
Frankland, whose first act was to stoop, embrace, kiss, and tongue the
beautiful little pinky aperture, wetting it with her saliva, she
brought her fine long clitoris, stiff as a prick, and plunged within.
The letch that both had taken for the same indulgence lent enchantment
to the act, and their wild imaginations created an excess of joy that
the smaller size of the Frankland's clitoris, in comparison with the
dimensions of our longer pricks, might not have led one to suppose
possible.

Twice we indulged in this excess, the women going off half a dozen
times to my once.

I had aided the Frankland by using a double dildo, which at once filled
both apertures. This excellent instrument was an invention of the
Frankland, which she had suggested to a Parisian dildo maker, and had
had it made in two or three sizes. It became very useful in our orgies,
as from disparity of numbers an odd couple were left out, when the
_double jouissance_ was in operation, and then the two outsiders, with
tongues and dildoes, could gamahuche with great satisfaction.

During our tribadic junction, with the Egerton fucked by the Frankland
in the arse, the Count had first fucked and then sodomised the Benson
to their mutual satisfaction. We all rose, purified, and refreshed with
wine and biscuits, while discussing what our next move should be. The
Count had not yet had the Frankland _in culo_, and suggested, as it was
her introductory meeting, that the greater honours should be conferred
on her on this happy occasion, so I was to fuck her while he enjoyed
her in the rear quarters. The Egerton and the Benson should use double
dildoes to each other, or in any other way amuse themselves.

This was a most exquisite encounter, and with such unutterable
enjoyment that we hardly paused between the first and second, and it
was not until we had deluged thrice both interiors that we withdrew.
The delighted Frankland had never ceased spending, but so vigorous a
nature could easily have taken twice as much; but the other dear
creatures had now to be conciliated.

The Count next took the Benson in cunt while I blocked the rear
aperture, and the Frankland once more enculed the Egerton, who dildoed
herself in cunt at the same time; all of us running two courses. We
then rose, purified, and refreshed. When our pricks were ready it was
the Egerton who took me in front and the Count behind, and the Benson,
who had grown lewd on the Frankland's clitoris, was sodomised by her
and dildoed by herself. The Egerton still suffered a little in the
double stretching, so that we ran but one exquisite bout, enabling us,
whose powers began to fail to be re-excited, to finish with the _double
jouissance_ in the glorious body of the Frankland.

We carried this on until the midsummer holidays, when at their desire I
introduced the Benson, Egerton, Frankland, and the Count to my uncle,
aunt, Mrs. Dale, Ellen, and Harry, and we had some glorious orgies in
my chambers.

The splendour of my aunt's arse captivated the Frankland and the Count.
The latter soon got into young Dale's arse, which he did one day when
arriving for the very purpose half an hour before the appointed time of
all meeting. I was present, and was so excited at the sight that I
seized upon the Count's arse and delightedly astonished him by giving
the double enjoyment.

It was after this, as Harry remained to live with me, that he was
introduced to our general orgies, and thus we occupied all the dear
creatures at once, and most voluptuous and lascivious meetings we all
enjoyed, the Count occasionally giving us a private visit.

Meanwhile Ellen had been put to the same finishing school where my
sisters already were, with permission to go out with them on the
Sundays, when we always had a delicious orgy at our dear friend
MacCallum's. He, like the Count, had taken a peculiar fancy for the
tight young arsehole of Harry Dale, without altogether deserting the
women, especially my sister Eliza, whose delight in rear sports was
supreme, and she never would be fucked but when she had a prick in each
aperture, preferring mine in her cunt with either Dale or MacCallum
operating in the rear.

Knowing the hours when I could not be interrupted by any of my lady
friends, I did not neglect the superb Nichols, but had her and Ann to
come together for an hour and a half, from half-past nine to eleven
a.m., and most delicious fucking I had with both. I had equally
initiated them into the mysteries of rear delights, and both took it
with great gusto. Upon finding this I gradually descanted on the
exquisite delights of the _double jouissance_ with two male pricks,
filling with ecstasies indescribable the two apertures at once.

When once I had excited their desires on this point, I mentioned my
dear friend MacCallum More, as one in whom we could all confide, and
with some little hesitation obtained their consent to introduce him. I
had already mentioned the matter to him; told him he might think the
Nichols too old, but she was gloriously superb in body, and so
extraordinarily well preserved that her body was twenty years younger
than her face and her lust and fucking powers were far superior to a
woman of twenty-five. Besides, I hinted that he might persuade Ann, and
perhaps her sister Jane, to join our Lyon's Inn revels.

We met by appointment on a given morning. I advised MacCallum to come
sooner, and when the women came, under the pretence of his not being
able to join us that morning, I would get them stript, and when all was
ready he should appear in buff, and so break any _mauvaise honte_ they
might have at first undressing before him.

He was wonderfully struck with the superb body of the Nichols, and, as
the stranger, we gave him his choice. He clasped her in his nervous
arms, devoured her with kisses, and incontinently laying her down on
the mattressed floor, proceeded to fuck her in the good old English
fashion, with legs and arms around her body. Ann and I gazed for a
little on the splendid action of her aunt's arse, and the evident way
in which she milked the teat as it withdrew each time he heaved his
arse to re-enter with exciting vigour. We could hold no longer and each
ran a course of ecstatic delight ending in all the frenzy of lust to
die inanimate the next instant.

Our charming partners had spent repeatedly during our encounter. They
wanted an immediate renewal, but MacCallum suggested a change of
partners and of position, that is to say, fucking them on their knees
with their splendidly developed buttocks turned up but taking them in
the cunt.

This change was rapidly effected. We placed ourselves in such a
position that each could see all the action of the other. It was a
splendid fuck, and as our edge was taken off we drew it out a
considerable length, giving the dear recipients the opportunity of
spending four or five times to our once.

After recovering from the soaking after-joys of this delicious
encounter, we had some champagne and some smutty talk, as well as
outspoken praise of their splendid power of fuck; feeling their cunts
and they our pricks, till renovated and renewed, we arranged for
further action. As it was their introductory lesson in the double
enjoyment, the splendid Nichols had, of course, first choice. She chose
me for cunt, and to his intense delight, our dear friend for the rear
attack. Ann was to straddle over her aunt and me, and be gamahuched
both in cunt and arsehole by our friend. We had no difficulty in
hilting ourselves to the cods in both apertures, but so excited was the
Nichols that with the mere throbbings of our pricks on completely
housing ourselves, she spent, squealing like a rabbit. We gave her time
to fully enjoy it, and then commenced a slow, regulated movement, which
quickly drove the Nichols into a state of furiously raving lust, and
again she spent in an almost killing agony of delight, screaming with
excess of ecstasy. Again we paused to allow of the utmost enjoyment,
but renewed when her delicious cunt and arse pressures announced a
return of craving appetite. These pauses enabled us to bring on seven
overpouring discharges on her part, until she was quite exhausted,
especially when we both came together in an excess of joy that ended in
perfect inanition, on recovering from which we relieved the Nichols of
the double cargo within her.

She had already almost strangled me with her embraces in the
unutterable joys I had procured her. Rolling off on her side she drew
MacCallum also to her, to embrace him for the intense gratification he
had afforded her. We again refreshed the inward man after a
purification and laving with cold water, as a restorative. Then Ann
took up her position in her turn, for she, too, wished to try the novel
experiment with the smaller prick in her arsehole.

The Nichols felt exhausted for the moment, so lay on the sofa and
enjoyed the sight of our three persons in all the delirium of raging
lust and sodomy. The experiment enchanted Ann as it had overpoweringly
enchanted her aunt. She, too, spent seven or eight times before joining
us in our soul-killing discharge. The Nichols had laid still for about
two thirds of the time this bout continued, she then rose to straddle
across Ann and me, and was about to present her magnificently large
cunt to be gamahuched by MacCallum, but he begged her to turn her
bottom to him and heave it well up, while resting her hands on Ann's
shoulders. He then could first contemplate and handle her huge superb
buttocks, then transferring his hands to her clitoris and cunt, he
licked and tongued the grand aperture of her arse--rough, brown, and
corrugated, just my taste.

We had a most glorious bout, ending in all the ecstatic joys of
spending and after-delights. Ann was as greatly gratified with the
_double jouissance_ as her aunt had been before. We again laved and
refreshed, and closed this most delicious orgy with MacCallum first in
the Nichols' cunt, with my big and doted-on prick in her arse, which,
now she was used to it, pleased her more than ever.

In the same order we double-fucked Ann, although she expressed her
greater gratification of MacCallum in her arse and my splitter in her
cunt. Again we gamahuched them both, as time would not allow of our
resurrection, then they left us.

My guardian, at his marriage, had bought a house in Portland Place, but
the lease of its then tenant only expired on the 20th March this
spring, and before being occupied it had to be entirely new painted and
decorated, so that July was nearly at an end before they could
comfortably take up their residence in it. Meanwhile they had
apartments at a hotel near Hyde Park corner.

When once they were completely housed, which was not the case until the
middle of August, my guardian desired his wife to send the carriage for
the girls every Sunday morning. Hearing that Ellen was their intimate
friend, she became included in the invitation. This put an end to our
Sunday orgies in our friend MacCallum's chambers, much to our mutual
regret.

As far as Harry and I were concerned the ever thoughtful and delicious
Frankland came to our aid. Pretending that the girls must need walking
exercise, she always after luncheon proposed they should walk down to
their brother's chambers in the Temple, take him and Harry as their
further companions up to Kensington Gardens or the "Zoo," and bring all
back to dinner.

As my guardian always took a siesta on Sundays after luncheon, for
being too old to fuck his wife every night, Saturday night, or rather
Sunday morning, when he had nothing in the way of business to trouble
him, was dedicated to two or three hours of extra dalliance with his
adored wife. She told me he was very amorous upon her, could not do
much fucking, indeed, she thought his efforts that way were even more
than he ought to do at his age, but he was never tired of gamahuching
her and posing her in every attitude when stark naked; of course she
lent herself to every wish of the old man, and had, even after great
persuasion, which only her love and attachment to him could have even
made her consent, allowed him the honours of her beautiful arse-hole.
This requiring, as he said, an extra firmness of prick, she further did
him the extra favour of toying and sucking his prick up to the utmost
stiffness. So she had made him absolutely adore her, and she could turn
him round her little finger. Her word and will was law, so she could do
as she liked.

She told me on several occasions that she thought he was exerting his
erotic powers to too great an extent, and that she did all she could to
moderate his excitement, but all to no purpose; he was infatuated with
the glorious charms of her body, or what is called cunt-struck, perhaps
the strongest passion that can seize on man and dangerous for a man of
advanced years. Well, his Sunday afternoon's siesta was long, and left
the Frankland at liberty to come to my rooms with my sisters, where
strip was the word, and fucking in every variety followed.

I soon found we must have other help; the pace I was going at was
beginning to tell, so with the consent of the darling Frankland I made
a confidant of the Count, and asked him to join our Sunday's orgy. You
may imagine with what joy he accepted, for apart from his delight in
seeing me in incestuous connection with my sisters, their young charms,
especially Eliza's, had great attraction for him, and then the
Frankland, so similar in lust and temperament. We had thus most
delicious orgies every Sunday afternoon, until the end of October of
the following year, when my sisters had finished their schooling, and
I, too, had left college, entered at the Middle Temple, and had been
for three months in a conveyancer's office, reading up previous to
being called to the bar.

It was then that Mr. Nixon's health gave symptoms of serious
disturbance, and his doctor recommended him to pass the winter in a
warmer climate. His wife suggested the advantage travelling would be
both to the girls and myself; she had only to express the wish to have
us all together, and we were warmly invited to join them.

We passed through Switzerland, Milan, and Florence to Rome, where we
took up our residence for four months.

The Egertons and Bensons happily spent the same winter at Rome.

My rooms were in an adjoining palace to where Mr. and Mrs. Nixon and my
sisters resided, there not being accommodation for me. I thus had a
charming entresol of five rooms all to myself; one of which looked on
and over the Tiber, and was in no way overlooked. To this room we
constantly resorted for orgies.

The Egertons had passed some winters in Rome, and she had two or three
clerical lovers, and these had introduced two others to the Benson on
her former visits, and all had been accustomed to general orgies. You
may imagine the delight of these priestly debauchees when they found
themselves introduced to our circle of three fresh cunts, and such
splendid ones, and all without any mock-modest prejudices but up to
every excess of lubricity. So to five women we thus had six men, and
eventually a very handsome young priest, debauched by the others,
joined our party, and we carried on the wildest and most extravagant
orgies of every excess the most raging lust could devise. We made
chains of pricks in arseholes, the women between with dildoes strapped
round their waist, and shoved into the arsehole of the man before them,
while his prick was into the arsehole of the woman in his front.

These holy fathers had immense resources in the way of infinite
variety, stimulating to excesses of debauchery that very soon brought
the rod into requisition.

We all from time to time enjoyed the double coition, the women
invariably so at every meeting.

These holy fathers had all very fine pricks, but none so large as mine,
and many of them loved to have my prick in their arses when opportunity
offered. In such delights the winter passed rapidly away.

In the spring Mr. Nixon's health seemed very precarious, and we moved
to Naples, where from necessity our extreme indulgence in venereal
excesses was much curtailed.

In May we returned to England, but poor Mr. Nixon was evidently fucked
out. The Frankland told me that the more his health failed the more
lewd he seemed to grow. His passion for gamahuching her cunt had
increased, and even his prick seemed to gather new life as life ebbed
away, for hardly a night passed without his fucking her, at night in
the cunt, and at morning, in full daylight, kneeling and feeling her
splendid arse, he took her in the rear aperture. He and she too felt it
was killing him, but his infatuation was overpowering, and he declared
if it did kill him he could not die a happier death. In fact a month
after we returned he had an apoplectic fit actually when his prick was
spending in her arsehole. He lived but a month afterwards. He left all
his property to his wife absolutely, with legacies of £2,500 to each of
my sisters, and £1,000 to me.

This sad event cast a gloom for some time over all our pleasures.

The Frankland took my sisters to reside with her, but all went down to
spend the first three months of mourning quietly with my mother. She,
too, took ill when we were with her, and died before the three months
were up. This drew me down to home, now mine, and the dear Frankland
continued to stay with us for two months longer, and then left for
London. We three orphans remained for all that winter in our old home,
settling a variety of things.

My sisters now with their succession to some £600 apiece, the £1,000
left them by our uncle, and the £2,500 by Mr. Nixon, and the £400 which
I promised them as a marriage present, and with their great beauty of
form and face, for both had grown into remarkably fine young women,
became very eligible matches.

Many country families sought us out after the first three months of our
mourning, and several offers were made to the girls. They were both
somewhat fastidious after the life they had led, but eventually both
were married. Mary to a very nice fellow, who proved, as she told me, a
first-rate fucker. He got her with child, and they had a son, a fine
boy, in the tenth month of their marriage. She was very happy, now and
then coming to see me, and getting a jolly good fuck from my renovated
prick, for now that he was lying fallow, my somewhat exhausted system
was getting quite recruited.

Alas! poor Mary lost her husband by cholera in the second year of their
marriage. He had a handsome estate, and left her well off, and sole
guardian to his son, who grew up a very fine fellow, and when at
puberty became the solace of his widowed mother, who had initiated him
into all love's mysteries.

Eliza was not quite so fortunate as her sister in her husband; he was a
good sort of man who, one would have thought, would just have suited
the hot temperament of Eliza, well and powerfully built, and with an
air of being a man of erotic passions; but he turned out to be of a
languid unimpassioned nature, who could not imagine any other manner
than simply mounting on a woman's belly and fucking her once a night,
and with no conception of using either preliminaries or aids to her
passions. So that he left poor Eliza only in a state of excitement
instead of giving any satisfaction to her lascivious nature. She did,
eventually, work him up to good night and good morning, but for her
full satisfaction she used too seek elsewhere, and even to content
herself with the embraces of a man servant, who, if not good looking,
proved to have a splendid and powerful prick, and nearly daily gave her
comfort. She also occasionally came to me, when she had both apertures
well exercised, and left me much comforted.

She never had any children, and so managed her intrigues as never to be
found out.

I returned to London in the spring, and was called to the bar.

I went the western circuit for odd assizes, and then abandoned the bar
as a profession.

Harry Dale, with more perseverance, as well as greater necessity for
exertion, continued in the profession, was duly called to the bar, and
eventually became a rising and successful barrister, and at this period
of our old age is now a distinguished judge.

But to return to our earlier days.

Harry and I carried on our intrigue with the Nichols and Ann, aided by
our dear friend MacCallum. Also from time to time with the Benson,
Egerton, and Count, to which generally the darling Frankland brought
her exquisite charms to intoxicate us with pleasure.

This delightful reunion was sadly affected by the loss of the Count,
who received an amnesty--I think I before have said he was a political
exile--returned to his own country, and we never again had his
delightful aid in our sadly shortened orgies.

The Count and I met in a future year at his old castle on the hills of
Pied, of which I shall have much more to say on a later occasion.

It was a sad loss, especially for the Egerton, who dearly loved the
Count. He had been her first lover, indeed, her initiator in the real
mysteries of Venus. It will be remembered that her husband was one of
those old insensible natures that think it is only necessary to hastily
"piss their tallow," as Falstaff says, as quickly as they can, and
leave a poor woman just sufficiently excited to be madly anxious for a
thorough good fucking. It is these insensate cold-blooded husbands who
raise, without satisfying, their wife's erotic passions, and drive them
perforce to seek salacious comfort in other arms.

Oh! how many women if only fucked with some regard to their own
naturally lewd feeling, would have never committed adultery or made a
scandal. Many are the women who have told me, with tears in their eyes,
of the cold insensible conduct of their husbands, who, never fucking
them but when their sluggish natures felt the want, then turning upon
them without the slightest preparatory handling or embracing, mount,
shove it in, give a few in-and-out movements, spend, and then withdraw,
just as they have done enough to excite their poor wives' passions
without satisfying them, and thus leaving them a prey to inordinate
longing that forces them to seek the relief to their passions the
selfish brutes of husbands had only raised without allaying.

I remember an intrigue I had with an Italian Countess. Her husband, a
tall and very capable man, was an extreme bigot, who thought it deadly
sin to indulge in any caresses or carnal excitement, or even for his
wife to expose any naked flesh to raise concupiscent ideas, so she had
to have her nightgown closed up to her throat, with long sleeves and
skirts, in the centre a slit through which he performed his duty when
in want of relief to himself. He never kissed or embraced her body at
any time, but lay like a log by her side, with his back turned to her.
When his own passions prompted him to fuck, which was very seldom, he
was naturally quite ready and rapidly finished his coup. He used to
turn to her, waken her up with a shake, cry out, "Marietta, porgemi il
vaso generative" (Marietta, reach me the generative vase), upon which
she stretched herself on her back, he got on her without lifting her
petticoats or feeling her cunt, but opening the slit, pointed his prick
to her cunt, thrust it up to the hilt, and being himself in want of
spermatic relief, in a very few strokes spent, just staying in long
enough to "piss all his tallow," and then withdraw, turning his back
again to sleep, leaving his wife just sufficiently excited to have
enjoyed it, and thus left her madly longing for the satisfaction he did
not afford. She said he was quite capable, too, of giving satisfaction
if his bigotry had allowed him. We used to fuck at a tremendous rate,
and I always commenced with a "Marietta, Marietta, porgemi il vaso
generative," and then proceeded to fuck and laugh like mad.

Of course, irritated as her hot passions were by her booby of a
husband, she resorted, not only to me, but to whomsoever she could get
to satisfy the cravings of her irritated cunt.

The Bensons and Egertons again left in the autumn for Rome.

The Frankland, not yet out of her year's widowhood, did not go much
into society, and we saw much more of her than before. She came at
least three times a week to my chambers, when Harry and I gave her the
comfort she so much required; first each fucking her singly twice over,
and then three double-pleasure fucks, with change about in the
apertures: finishing off with a mouth fuck from one or the other, and a
double gamahuche.

About once a week the amorous and delicious-fucking Nichols with Ann
would come of a morning, when we managed to send both away satisfied
for the day.

When winter drove our friend MacCallum home from his fishing, we
renewed some excellent orgies at his chambers, where Ann, and
afterwards Jane, occasionally came. By the way, Jane's arse had
developed in an extraordinary manner, and became one of the most
exciting delights of our orgies at MacCallum's. He also now joined in
our morning encounters with the Nichols and her niece.

At Christmas time the Frankland, Harry, and I all went down by
invitation to the Rectory, where uncle welcomed with great delight the
glorious and exciting Frankland. Mrs. Dale and Ellen joined our party.
Dear aunt positively devoured me with her caresses, and before I was
shown up to my room, had drawn me into her little room downstairs, had
a suck at my prick, leant her body on the table, stuck out her immense
arse, and had me into her cunt for a rapid rack-off; but this only
excited me to an immediate renewal, for the touch and sight of her
splendid buttocks instantly produced a stiffness, she herself in the
middle of my movements in front, drawing my prick out of her cunt and
guiding it into the inviting entrance to the secret altar of Juno and
of Venus Callipyge. Both courses were run off at a gallop, and were a
momentary allaying of the insatiable salacity of my most lewd and
lascivious aunt. She then next conducted the Frankland, I can never
call her Nixon, into her bedroom, under pretence of showing her to it.
She no sooner had her there than up went her petticoats, and aunt glued
her lips to the wonderful clitoris of the divine Frankland, and using
fingers up both apertures, made the Frankland quickly give down her
first offering to the obscene god.

As soon as aunt's tribadic rage to possess the Frankland was thus
abated for the moment, she allowed Mrs. Nixon to remove bonnet and
shawl, but then as quickly demanded and obtained a double gamahuche.
The Frankland the more readily consenting as she knew aunt had taken
the keen edge off my lecherous appetite, and she would revel in the
thick raging sperm I had shot into both orifices. These preliminaries
settled, we were able to be much more tranquil all the afternoon.

The Dale and Ellen came to dinner; I slipt into their room when all
were dressing for dinner, and had a delicious rack-off in both their
lecherous and longing cunts. Uncle had equally enjoyed the tight
favourite arsehole of Harry Dale, he having conducted him to the
well-known summer house for that purpose as soon as we arrived.

We could all thus peaceably enjoy the good things set before us, and
during our wine after dinner exchange accounts of all events that had
passed since last we met, and they were varied, for Mr. Nixon's death
and legacies to my sisters and myself were subjects of congratulation,
while the death of my mother was, on the contrary, one of condolence
and sympathy.

By ten o'clock we all broke up, but with the whispered request to all
to repair to aunt's bedroom half an hour after the household had
retired. We were all too interested in the delicious orgy there to take
place to fail. Blazing fires in both that and the adjoining room had
been kept up all the afternoon; plenty of lights were burning so as to
illuminate all sides at once. We all met in mere night wrappers, and as
soon as we were assembled and the word given "off," they were thrown
aside, and we all stood in nature's lovely nakedness. Aunt, in her
eager and lascivious inspirations, flung herself on my naked body, drew
me to the bed, and had me into her longing and delicious cunt at once,
and with legs and arms thrown round me, was instantly pressing
furiously forward, notwithstanding the remonstrance of my uncle, who
wished to arrange a general plan of operations so as to include all at
once. Aunt's voluptuous eagerness produced a rapid discharge on her
part. Seeing this, while she was in the momentary ecstasy of spending,
he was enabled to drag me from her arms, fortunately before I had
weakened my powers by spending for a fourth time that day. Aunt, too,
was now in a condition to listen to reason, and bring her ideas of our
after-combinations into play.

As we had brought the Count with us for a week's stay, we were just
four cocks to four hens; so we could couple in the first instance on an
exact equality, it being necessary by previous good fucking to bring
the women's passions up to a boiling heat of lust to make them enter
into our greater excesses with all the wild energy of the most
salacious lubricity. Aunt had taken a great fancy to the Count when up
at midsummer.

Uncle was most lecherous on the glorious Frankland. I took most readily
to the luscious and lascivious Dale, who was equally eager to repossess
the prick which she firmly believed she had initiated into all the joys
of cunt, and a most delicious fuck we had, she spending furiously and
frequently to my once.

Harry was equally pleased to pair off with his loved cousin, whose
maidenhead he had undoubtedly taken.

The women would gladly have had each fucker run a second course without
drawing. But both aunt and uncle opposed this, as both more exhausting
and less variety. So aunt chose me, uncle took the exciting young cunt
of Ellen, Harry turned on to his mother's cunt, from whence he had
originally come into the world, and the Count got the glorious
Frankland, of whom he was never tired. This course was more prolonged
by the men than the first, with the object of somewhat allaying the
insatiable lust of the women by making them spend infinitely oftener
than their fuckers.

We so managed matters that we all came together or nearly so, and the
women followed suit at the last final crisis, which was ushered in with
wild cries of lust, and then a sudden overpowering silence fell on all
as they lay panting in all the after-joys that follow the ecstatic
discharge of life's essence.

We rose for a general embrace of our naked bodies, then a romp, and a
mutual slapping of arses and seizing of pricks and cunts, a very
exciting game, which soon brought evidences of renewed vigour in all
except poor uncle, who required a longer pause and an extra excitement
before he could indulge in a third encounter.

The Count took the delicious arsehole of the Frankland, who begged for
me as her fucker. Aunt got Mrs. Dale under for a double gamahuche,
while Harry crammed his prick up aunt's arse. Uncle enjoyed a delicious
gamahuche with Ellen, who sucked his limp prick all the time without
any success.

This was a delicious bout for us all, and ended in heavenly raptures.

Our second double couplings were: myself in my aunt's cunt, which
incest stimulated uncle to a stand, and he took to his wife's arse
while her nephew incestuously fucked her cunt. The Count took to the
delicious and most exciting tight cunt of the Dale, while her son
shoved his prick into his mother's arse, to her unspeakable
satisfaction. Ellen and the Frankland amused themselves with tribadic
extravagances.

This bout was long drawn out, and afforded inexpressible ecstasies to
all concerned. And after the wild cries and most bawdy oaths that
instantly preceded the final ecstasy, the dead silence and long
after-enjoyments were drawn out to a greater length than before. After
which we all rose and purified, and then took refreshment of wine and
cake, while discussing our next arrangement of couples.

Uncle had, fortunately for him, managed not to spend in the last bout;
he, therefore, was still capable of entering an arsehole, and he chose
the delicious arse of the Frankland to receive this final offering, for
after that he was done for that night. I was below engulphed in the
exquisite cunt of the Frankland. The Count fucked Ellen while Harry was
into her behind. Aunt and Mrs. Dale mutually gamahuched and dildoed
each other. This, too, was a long-drawn-out affair and ended in
perfectly convulsive ecstasies and cries of the wildest sensuality that
our most salacious passions could prompt.

I then took my aunt's arse while the lecherous Dale was underneath
gamahuching and dildoing her, and by putting the Dale close to the edge
of the bed, the Count stood between her legs, which were thrown over
his shoulders, and thus he fucked her, having taken a letch to fuck her
cunt, which was an exquisite one for fucking: her power of nip being
nearly equal to the Frankland, and only beaten by aunt's extraordinary
power in that way. We thus formed a group of four enchained in love's
wildest sports together.

The Frankland was gamahuched by uncle while having Harry's prick in her
arse, Ellen acting postillion to Harry's arse while frigging herself
with a dildo.

The closing bout of the night was the Count into aunt's arse, my prick
into the Frankland's arse, Harry enjoying an old-fashioned fuck with
his mother, and Ellen under aunt to dildo and be gamahuched and dildoed
by aunt. We drew this bout out to an interminable length, and lay for
nearly half an hour in the annihilation of the delicious after-joys. At
last we rose, purified, and then restoring our exhausted frames with
Champagne, embraced and sought well-earned sleep in our separate
chambers.

I slept the sleep of the just, and awoke late to find aunt sucking my
stiff-standing prick at the very instant it was filling her mouth with
a deluge of creamy spunk. She sucked up to the get all out, and in
doing so brought him up to the scratch again, so jumping out of my low
bed I made her kneel on it, stick out her enormous arse, and licked her
reeking cunt until I could stand it no longer. Then bringing my huge
prick I plunged in a single vigorous thrust up to the very top of her
cunt, and made her squeal and spend with that alone. Pausing to let her
enjoy it, I recommenced and ran a delicious course in that most
exquisite cunt, and would have done so a second time, after a pause of
ecstasy, if Harry Dale had not rushed into the room to say that all
were impatiently awaiting me to sit down to breakfast. Aunt just stayed
to give a final suck to my prick, and then vanished.

I hastened to wash and dress, having sent Harry off to beg they would
not wait for me.

On joining them the sly jokes they cut at my apparent laziness proved
that they knew of the cause of detention. I looked at dear aunt, and at
once saw by the air of gratification on her dear plump face, that she
herself had been boasting of her exploit, for it was all her own doing.

Being Sunday, we all went decorously to church. The doctor gave us a
very unctuous sermon on the goodness of virtue and chastity. It was a
really fine sermon, and delivered with an unction that forbade the
possibility of supposing that the preacher could be in reality the very
reverse of his doctrine. It much pleased some of the country families,
and one or two with their wives waited for the doctor leaving the
church, to compliment him on his eloquence and admirable teaching. The
flattered doctor ended by inviting two rather distant residents to
luncheon at the Rectory, so that we formed a numerous party, all on our
best behaviour. It was quite edifying to hear the pious and virtuous
remarks of the admirable Frankland, and the no less virtuous and
correct Dale. It gained them the entree into the exclusive set of both
these high country families, and eventually led to an excellent
marriage for the dear little Ellen. So much for the success of
dissimulation. Vice playing the part of virtue, and succeeding to
perfection. So goes the world. One thing is certain, that on this
occasion it enforced chastity, in one sense at least, that we had no
opportunity of practising vice that afternoon. The charming
Frankland-Nixon made a great impression on the wives as well as
husbands, to be sure it was well known that she was a very wealthy
widow, and they may have had some design of securing her for a son,
nephew, or at least having the chance at it. She thanked them with that
grace and charming ease of manner which so distinguished her and made
her so captivating, excusing herself from visiting, during the first
year of her widowhood, anywhere but among family friends, and as her
late husband was Charles Roberts's and his sisters' guardian, she
considered his family as almost her own. They hoped to have the
pleasure of seeing her some future day.

The whole visit passed off very pleasantly, and left us only an hour
for a stroll in the garden and time to dress for dinner. It will be
recollected that the doctor was a great exacter of full evening dress
at dinner, as tending to keep up proper appearances.

We met at the accustomed hour at night in aunt's room, in the full
dress of Adam and Eve before they munched the apple.

This night was dedicated chiefly to sacrifices to Venus Apostrophia,
for the doctor commenced by having the Count while he was fucking his
wife, and when able to get his fine old cock in for another go, would
only again have it in my arse, while I was doing the same to aunt's
glorious immensity with the Count below fucking her.

That was the end of poor uncle's powers for that night, but he
gamahuched all the women at the finish of their encounters with us
three men. We gave them all the _double jouissance_, while those
unoccupied carried on their own little game with tongue or dildo.

It was again a night of most exquisite enjoyment.

The following and remaining nights of our visit brought into
requisition the rod before uncle could get his dear old prick to stand,
and myself tailed off on the next Sunday night, the last of our visit,
so that uncle seeing what he called the laziness of my prick, seized
the rod, and gave me as sound a flogging as ever he had done in my
schoolboy days. The fact was that he had been longing to renew on my
arse his letch for giving a really severe whipping. He had already by
dint of the same punishment fucked the arses of the Count and the
divine Frankland, and was now so excited anew that his prick stood as
stiff as ever it did; and my red excoriated arse excited and renewed
his very fine prick; but first I insisted upon moving to aunt's arse,
who at the moment was having a last fuck from the Count, and this
incestuous group closed our orgies on this occasion, for we left for
town the next day.

After breakfast in the morning I slipt into the Dale's room, and had a
parting fuck both with her and Ellen. Harry came in while we were at
work, Ellen under the Dale gamahuching her, and I above administering a
rear adieu. Harry stopped us for a moment until he could withdraw Ellen
and take her place, that he might have a parting fuck with his loved
mother, who thus had the two pricks she most loved in the world into
her together. We drew our pleasure out to the utmost length our lust
would allow of and spent in the most ecstatic joy that poor human
nature could support.

Aunt had gone to the Count's bedroom at the very time we were meeting
in Mrs. Dale's. Notwithstanding which, her insatiable cunt made her
draw me into her sanctum downstairs for a final fuck at the last moment
of our parting.

Harry Dale staying behind to pass a week at home with his mother, the
adorable Frankland, the Count and I returned to town together. On the
journey up we agreed to dine at Very's in Regent Street, and have a
comparatively quiet night all together at my chambers, which we did,
luxuriating in having the glorious naked body of the delicious
Frankland between us. After we had each bedewed both her front and rear
orifices with our life's balmy essence, we slept soundly till morning,
when we renewed our double offerings on those glorious and delicious
altars, then breakfasted.

This was the last occasion but one of our having the Count, whose time
for departure to his own country was drawing near.

He left that day on a visit to a family in Scotland, whose son and heir
was really the fruit of his loins.

On his return some fortnight later we again passed a night with our
exquisite friend the Frankland, and being both fresh from the country,
we administered so many delicious coups to both apertures as quite
contented her salacious love of prick. We parted next day with our
loved friend the Count, but not for the last time, as I shall relate in
its proper place--a delightful visit we paid to him in his old
ancestral castle, and an after-rencontre with him and his sister in
Turin.

I saw my loved Frankland to her home and left town myself the same
afternoon for my home in the country, to arrange for various repairs
and alterations required on the property.

I took my dear friend MacCallum with me. We spent a pleasant ten days,
varied with a visit first from one of my sisters and then from the
other, for two nights each, and jolly nights we spent fucking in every
way.

Mary's belly was up, but she declared it only made fucking more
delicious than ever to her, still more with the _double jouissance_, in
which she preferred the smaller prick of MacCallum to mine in her arse.

When Eliza came she stayed a third night, and taxed our powers to the
utmost; she was such a glutton for fuck on this occasion, declaring
that her husband's want of power, as well as tact, left her more lewd
after his fucking her than she was before, so that she had been forced
by the excess of her unsatisfied lust produced by her husband to have
recourse to the fine prick of her footman, a powerful young fellow,
otherwise very plain, and not likely to inspire jealousy to any
husband, but with whom she rarely could do more than get a rack-off in
a hurry, which was far from satisfaction sufficient for her hot
passions. It was this that made her revel with such insatiable desires
in the possession of our almost untiring pricks. Differing from Mary in
her love of rear-fucking, it was my big prick she loved best to have in
her arse, while MacCallum's lesser shaft satisfied her less exacting
cunt. She was certainly one of the lewdest creatures ever made, wildly
lascivious and full of variety. She had the most engaging ways with
her, and could raise a prick from the dead. She was a worthy pupil of
the Frankland, and had all the love and longing for prick, and cunt
too, that our deliciously insatiable aunt was so famous for. She grew
older, and becoming one of the most desirable women, I never tired of
fucking her in both orifices whenever the opportunity presented itself.

I returned to town just in time to have a parting orgy with the Count
and the Frankland in my chambers, which I before said was a night of
the wildest orgies.

MacCallum was called to the country by the illness of some of his
family, and was absent for six months, so I was left with Harry to have
occasional orgies together with the Frankland three times a week, and
with the Nichols and Ann or Jane once a week by way of variety, but as
they only came for a morning visit, these were not exhausting
encounters, so that we lay comparatively in fallow, till the return of
the Benson and Egerton, when they and the lovely Frankland taxed us to
the utmost twice or thrice a week.

Thus time progressed. The Frankland had been a widow for nearly two
years when she proposed to travel for two or three years without
returning in the interval to England. She wished me to accompany her,
and made a most surprising and unexpected proposition to me.

She said, "Charlie, my own darling, I love you more dearly than ever.
It is true I am considerably older than you, but you are now
twenty-five years of age, and, therefore, a full-grown man. I wish to
endow you with all my great wealth, and I offer you my hand in
marriage. Do not suppose I want to monopolize this dear prick." (We
were in bed naked, and had just concluded a most exquisite fuck.) "No,
with our love of variety we will still seek it out, but as husband and
wife we can do so with perfect ease and safety; whereas if not married
and travelling together we should be compromised at every city we stop
at. What say you, my darling Charlie?" Here she threw herself on my
bosom with loving eyes upraised to mine.

"Say, beloved of my soul! Why, look how the very idea has raised my
prick to instant life. If anything in the world could delight me more
than another it is your generous noble offer. To dedicate my life to
the woman I love more than any other is a joy greater than I can
express. I thank you from my soul, adorable creature as you are. Oh!
come to my arms as my future wife and let us revel in the glorious
idea."

Such was the way in which this happiness was conferred on me, which
endured for long years, although, alas, my widowed heart now all
hopelessly ever regrets that most lovable of women and best of wives.
Oh, what happiness it was as long as I possessed her.

We were married in a few days after this by special license.

The Benson and the Egerton were present and Harry Dale was my best man.
We adjourned to her house, now ours, to breakfast. They also stayed to
dinner and slept at our house, that we might celebrate our marriage
with a parting orgy, for we announced to our friends that in marrying,
so far from renouncing our orgies, we meant our union to promote ever
varying ones, and that on our return we would renew the exquisite ones
we had so often enjoyed with them.

Harry and I did all we could on that happy occasion to satisfy three of
the finest women in the world, whose delicious power of fucking was
never surpassed and rarely equalled.

Oh! we had such a delicious night. As to the women, their amorous
gamahuching of each other was ever renewed, and was most exciting to
see.

After breakfast that morning they stopped to see us off, and threw old
slippers after us for luck.

We posted down to aunt's for a day and a night on our way to the
continent.

They were, of course, delighted with my marriage as bringing great
wealth into the family, indeed, my darling presented aunt with a cheque
for £1000.

Mrs. Dale and Ellen came over, and we had another delicious night's
orgy, in which all exerted themselves to the utmost.

We parted from dear aunt and uncle, Mrs. Dale and Ellen, after
luncheon, and posted down to Dover; slept at Birmingham's Hotel, where
we had our real first night's fucking all to ourselves, enjoyed it in
moderation but in every endearment that two lovers could devise.

We crossed to Calais next day.

The sea was smooth at first, but we found it after passing the Foreland
very rough. My dear wife suffered severely; fortunately I myself never
felt better, and was thus able to devote every attention to the dear
sufferer. It left her even after we landed with nausea and a severe
headache, so that night at Devaux's Hotel we slept each in one of the
separate beds in the same room, as is usual in French hotels, and
indeed in continental hotels in general.

My darling wife was far from feeling well next morning, but fancied
that posting on to Abbeville would rather tend to recovery than
otherwise. We accomplished this easily between breakfast and dinner,
found a very comfortable hotel with very fair cooking and excellent
wines. My wife enjoyed her dinner, and felt something like herself
after it. We slept together by bringing the two beds side by side, but
only took a single fuck before sleeping, and next morning a double one.

We spent the day at Abbeville, wandering through its quaint streets and
seeing its fine unfinished cathedral. The following day we posted to
Amiens, visiting its very beautiful cathedral, posted the following day
to Beauvais, again slept, passed next day there, and on the following
day posted up to Paris, and drove to Meurice's Hotel in the rue de
Rivoli.

We had previously written for a set of rooms _au premier_, overlooking
the Tuileries Gardens, with orders to have dinner ready at a given
hour. We arrived just in time to change our travelling costume and to
sit down to a luxurious dinner. Here, as we had ordered, our bedroom
contained a proper large bed for both to sleep in. This hotel being
much used by the English was furnished with French taste but English
comfort.

The dilatory manner of our journey, the agreeable breaks we had made at
different interesting towns had quite restored my beloved wife to all
her accustomed health, energy, and lubricity. The comfort of the bed,
the stimulating cheer, and the excellent wine also nerved me to meet
her utmost lasciviousness, and we had a night such as we used to have
when I first had her in my mother's spare bedroom.

We recalled those happy days, and revelled in every lascivious act of
the hottest lust. My adored wife excelled herself, and I myself was
fully up to the mark; we fucked ourselves to sleep, with prick left
soaking in her deliciously tightest of cunts, so that on awaking in
full daylight I found my cock stiff standing in her cunt, which was
giving it most delicious pressures, quite involuntarily, for the
darling was not yet awake. I roused her by gentle movements, and the
frigging of her long delicious clitoris, so that she awoke to joys of
which we never tired. On this occasion natural wants compelled a
temporary withdrawal to relieve our distended bladders. We found that
it was already past ten o'clock, so she smacked my bare bottom and sent
me off to my dressing-room, that both might get ready for breakfast,
for which our appetites were already craving. I slipt on a
dressing-gown, went into our sitting-room, rang for a waiter, and
ordered breakfast to be got ready immediately, so that by the time we
were dressed it was on the table all smoking hot, and we sat down and
did full justice to it.

We spent several days in visiting the wonders of Paris.

I had heard of a famous bawd residing at No. 60, rue Richelieu, and
another, Madame Leriche, in the rue de Marc, where they had rooms, from
which, through cleverly arranged peep-holes, any operation in the next
room could be distinctly seen.

Madame Leriche's girls were instructed to get the finest men they could
see in the street, to bring them in, and there to pretend to be so
struck with their beauty that they would not be content without having
them quite naked, stripping themselves also. When quite naked they
caressed their pricks, waltzed round the room, taking care to stop
exactly opposite each hidden opening, and there caress, handle, and
show the standing prick to any looker-on, eventually fucking in such a
position as all peepers could fully see and enjoy.

The fun of the thing was the perfect unconsciousness of the men as to
the purpose of all these gyrations. They took it proudly as a homage to
their virility, and the power of their charms over their new conquest,
and were doubly lustful in consequence, little imagining it was all a
well-acted scene, got up for an exhibition to please others, and show
all their virile gifts. Sometimes both man and girl were very
attractive, and I used to fuck my loved Florence while in the act of
peeping.

The place where we sat to see was a small narrow room, with just space
for a couch on one side and two chairs at the end, next to each
peep-hole. Three other similar narrow rooms looked into the same
operating room.

One day we had an exciting fuck from the exhibition of a very fine man
fucking his girl with a splendid prick. We were kneeling on the couch
with my prick soaking in the quietude of the after-joy. We heard a
scuffling with suppressed bawdy exclamations on the other side of the
thin partition next to us. We, too, had made use of bawdiness. I had
whispered to Florence how deliciously tight her hairy cunt was, and how
splendidly her enormous arse moved below my eyes as I fucked her.

We now discovered that the couple next to us had overheard us, for we
could just hear her ask if her arse's movement and size pleased him as
much as their neighbour's seemed to have done.

"Oh, yes, my angel, you wriggle your immense arse to perfection, and
your cunt is almost too tight."

"Then fuck on with your splendid prick as hard as our neighbours were
at it." A happy thought seized me. I put my finger to my lip to give
the hint to Florence, slipped out into the passage and peeped through
the keyhole, which commanded the whole of the narrow room. I beheld a
handsome man fucking a superbly stout woman, kneeling with her head
down low, but towards the door. Her arse uncovered and held aloft was a
remarkably fine one, wriggling indeed to perfection.

I slipped back, described it to my dear wife, and suggested our
speaking to them through the partition as soon as they were done, to
avow that we had heard all their goings-on, as they had ours, and to
propose that we should form a _partie carrée_.

Florence jumped at the idea, just as their sighs and shaking of their
couch against the partition announced the grand final crisis.

We allowed them some minutes for the after-satisfaction; we then heard
the lady beg him to do it again as she felt his cock was stiffening
within her cunt.

"No wonder," said he, "when your delicious tight cunt is giving me such
exquisite pressures."

We thought this a happy moment, as they were both in a state of
lasciviousness; so tapping at the partition, and raising my voice just
sufficient to be clearly heard, I said--

"You have been following our example, and seem as lustful as we are,
suppose we join parties and exchange partners. I am sure you must be
two desirable persons, and you will find us worth knowing. It will be a
novelty exciting to all, and will lead or not, as it may be, to a
further acquaintance or just a momentary caprice. What say you?"

A pause and a whisper was followed by--

"Eh! bien, nous acceptons."

"Come to us, for I am half undressed," cried the gentleman.

We rose and went in unto them, even in a biblical sense. My slight peep
had given me an idea of two handsome persons, but a full view proved
them to be eminently so. He was still up to the hilt from behind. She
lifted her head to look at us on entering, but left her splendid arse
exposed, and did not for the moment alter her position. We handled and
pressed it. The gentleman feeling my wife's arse cried out to his
dearie--

"Here's an arse equal to yours."

Meanwhile, as I stood by her side feeling hers, she slipped her hand
into my flap, and in answer to his exclamation, said--

"There's a prick bigger than yours. Oh, I see we shall all be
delighted."

She rose and pulled out my standing prick to show it to her husband,
for like us they turned out to be a most salacious couple of married
people.

My wife laid hold of the husband's prick, and declared it to be a very
fine one, and a delicious variety which was always charming.

I proposed, as the room and couch could only accommodate one couple,
that I should take his wife into our room, and leave mine with him, and
as the two couches were close to the partition between, we could excite
each other by our mutual sighs and bawdy exclamations. This was at once
agreed to.

We all of us stripped to the buff; my new companion was magnificently
made--very much of my aunt's figure, with a splendid arse, although not
so enormously developed as dear aunt's. Her cunt was delicious, a grand
mons Veneris, sweetly haired with silky curls; her pouting cunt had the
true odour, and was very tight, and her pressures and action left
nothing to desire.

I gamahuched her first--her clitoris was well defined and stiff. Her
bubbies were superb, and stood firmly apart, face charming with lovely
and lovable blue eyes, full of the sparkle of lust; lips red and moist,
inviting a tongue.

We indulged in delicious preliminaries; she had a good look at my
prick, declared she had thought her husband's could not be beaten, but
admitted mine was longer and larger. She sucked its head. Then lying
back on the couch she begged me to mount on her belly, as she liked to
commence in that pose. I mounted upon her, got my prick gradually up to
the crushing of the two hairs, and then alternately tongue-ing her
sweet mouth or sucking a nipple of her lovely bosom, ran a most
delicious course, making her spend thrice to my once.

Our other equally occupied couple had evidently got a course ahead of
us, and were changing into the position in which we had first fucked
our wives.

We, too, followed in the same attitude, and really the fine arse of my
_fouteuse_, her naturally small waist, seen to perfection in this
position, and her noble shoulders beyond could hardly be excelled, and
were most inviting and inciting. I plunged with one fierce thrust up
her reeking cunt, and by the very violence of my attack made her spend
on finding it up to the cods, giving me at the same time a cunt
pressure almost equal to my loved wife's.

She was so delightful a fucker that I fucked her thrice more before
drawing out of that exquisite receptacle.

On comparing notes afterwards I learnt that my wife's fucker had just
done as much, and though not so cunt-satisfying a prick as mine, the
variety and novelty gave it an extra charm that more than made up for
any diminution of size.

We were thus all mutually delighted with our change of partners. An
acquaintance begun so delightfully led to a warm friendship and a
constant interchange of these most agreeable refinements, including
every variety of the gamahuche and _la double jouissance_ to all
parties.

We all went together to witness some rear-operations between two men,
for which the old bawd's house, No. 60, rue de Rivoli, was quietly
known to be the rendezvous. I made a first visit alone to see if it
would be worth our while; had an interview with the old bawd, a bold
masculine woman of a certain age, who must have been very desirable in
her younger years, for even now many who frequented her house finished
off in her fully developed charms. Her habit being, as I was told, to
come in to the man after one of the girls had left him to purify
herself, and herself to lave his prick from mere love and excitement of
handling a prick, and from long practice she had an art of doing it in
a way to raise another perpendicular, which led to its being allayed in
the full-blown charms of the bawd herself.

I was shown into her sanctum, and there I told her that I knew she
could arrange an exhibition of sodomy. I said that I only wanted to see
the operation, as it appeared to me impossible, and I should like the
two fellows to be well hung and good looking, if such she could procure.

"I have the very thing for you under my hand if you cart wait a quarter
of an hour."

As that exactly suited my purpose I said I would.

She rose, rang the bell, and when a tap came to the door, went out and
gave some orders. When she came back she said to me, "I have some very
fine girls, all entirely without prejudices, would you like to have one
up? I have them of all ages, from twelve to twenty-five; and also one
or two handsome boys to have in company with them, to excite the slower
powers of elderly men or those who like such additions."

I thanked her, but told her my only object at present was to see an
actual scene of sodomy. So to occupy me she opened a small cupboard,
and took out some bawdy books, admirably illustrated. The examination
of these was exciting; her experienced eye detected the effect in the
distention of my trousers, the extent of which seemed so to astonish
her that she laid her hand upon it, gave an exclamation of surprise at
its size, and said she must see so noble a prick, unbuttoned my
trousers, and pulled it out. She handled it charmingly and looked so
lewd that I don't know what might have happened, for I had already
slipped a hand up to an enormous big and hard arse, when a tap came to
the door, and a voice announced simply that all was ready. This at once
recalled me to myself, although the bawd would willingly have made me
before adjourning to the other room.

She said, "What a pity not to let me have this magnificent prick into
me. I wish the fellows had not come so soon, I am certain I could have
got it if we had not been interrupted, and I can tell you you would
have found me as good a fuck yet as the finest young woman you could
meet with."

I laughed, and to quiet her, said, "We may have that another time, for
you are a very fine and desirable woman." With this placebo she rose
and accompanied me to the room where the two men awaited us. They were
two tall, good-looking young men, evidently _garçons de cafés_, a class
much addicted to this letch, and acting as paid minions to those
wanting them.

They naturally concluded that such was my object. They were already
stript, and both their very fair pricks were nearly at full stand. They
each turned themselves round, and asked which arse I wished to operate
on, and which prick was to operate upon me.

The old bawd, whose interest it was to induce me to have them, handled
their pricks with great gusto, and pointed out the firmness and
attractiveness of their arses, bid me feel how hard they were, as well
as the stiffness of their pricks and the rough crispness of their
ballocks.

I felt them, and would gladly have had them both, but I knew they had
an infamous habit of _chantage_, that is of denouncing to their gang
well-to-do men who were got within their meshes, and go where he would
in Europe he was sure to be waited on and money screwed out of him by
threatening to denounce his practices; so shaking my head and refusing
to let the old bawd pull out my prick, which might then have become too
unruly, I firmly told her she knew I only came there to see what the
operation was like, and had no idea of having my own person handled by
them.

A mutual glance of disappointment was exchanged between the bawd and
them, but they put themselves at my disposal, and asked which was to be
the recipient and which the operator. I pointed out the largest prick
as the operator. They drew a sofa into the best light, and one knelt on
it, presenting a very tempting arsehole to his fellow minion; after
moistening it and spitting on it, the old bawd, with apparent relish,
guided the prick of the other to the aperture, and it glided with all
ease into the well-accustomed receptacle.

I was seated by their side with my eyes on a level and close to the
point of junction. A very exciting scene, for he went up to his cods,
and fucked right earnestly while the recipient wriggled his arse to
perfection, and seemed really to enjoy it. They spent with cries of joy
in great delight, it excited me very much, and the observant old bawd
could see my prick bounding within the confinement of my trousers.

Hoping to overcome my reluctance to take part in the programme, she
stimulated them to change places, and the recipient became the
operator, and the other the recipient. I was awfully lewd, but resisted
even that; after they had done I gave them a Napoleon apiece in excess
of the price paid to the bawd, and left them to dress, and retired with
the bawd to make other arrangements.

On shutting the door and entering the corridor I perceived at once some
doors opening upon small rooms adjoining the operating room, I guessed
their destination; on attempting to open one the bawd seized my arm in
great alarm, and said--

"You must not go there."

I smiled and said, "Oh, I understand, come along."

When once more in her sanctum I said, "I see you have had peepers
watching the operations, so it is well I resisted any complicity in the
action, but the discovery that you have the peep-holes already
simplifies my object. I have come here to report upon the effect of
this scene of sodomy. A friend who dares not do as much requires such a
stimulant to enable him to fuck a woman he much desires to have, and
who is my mistress. Now it so happens I want very much to fuck his
mistress, and we have made a compact that if this scene is likely to
excite him, we are to come to your peep-holes, and while he is thus
enabled to fuck my woman I shall fuck his. I am thus explicit that you
may know our real object. I suppose that now the witnesses to our
operations to-day have left, so let me see the rooms that I may judge
how far they will suit and which will most favour our object."

The old bawd complied directly, but still longing to have my big prick
into her, pulled her petticoats up to her navel, showing an enormous
mons Veneris, thickly haired, and turning round a still finer arse,
said, would I not like to assuage my excited prick in one or other of
her really splendid attractions.

I said not at present, thank you. And tightening my trousers over it,
showed her that it had quite drooped its head, and was no longer in the
humour.

She undertook to raise it very quickly, but I politely declined, on the
play of want of time, to thoroughly enjoy so splendid a woman.

With a sigh of disappointment, for the size of my prick had evidently
raised her lewdness to fiery zest, she led the way. Two or three of the
peeping rooms were too small for four, but one was arranged for a
_partie carrée_. I made an arrangement for the second day from then,
and requested, if possible, to have four buggers together, to do it in
various positions, and once at least in a chain of three pricks into
the arses before them at the same time; I paid in advance half of the
high price we were to pay, and fixed the hour of one o'clock in the
afternoon, in order to have plenty of daylight to see and thoroughly
enjoy all the excitement.

I left but allowed the old bawd just on going away to take out my prick
and give it a suck by the way of allaying a little the great desire she
had for it. She doubtless expected to raise such a heat as would compel
my passions to satisfy her, but I had now sufficient command of it to
keep it down.

Our grand scene of sodomistic encounters took place as arranged, the De
Grandvits, as our new friends were called, and ourselves, with a basket
containing two bottles of champagne, biscuits, and glasses, betook
ourselves to No. 60, and were installed in the chosen chamber some five
minutes before the arrival of the sodomites. We saw them undress, slap
each other's arses, and feel each other's pricks to get them in
fighting order.

The old bawd was there and lent an effective helping hand where wanted.
They all declared it would much assist their operations if she would
strip and let them see her flitting round and aiding in their efforts.

She knew herself to be much more attractive in body than face, and
complied directly, and really added much to the excitement of the scene.

They began by coupling in threes, so that one after the other held the
delicious position of middle man--be fucked and fucking. The spare
fourth fucking the old bawd, much to her gratification and ours.

The first outsider was now placed in the middle, and the previous
recipient became his attacker in the rear, while the previous
rear-fucker became the recipient of the outsider. The late middle man,
instead of fucking the bawd, buggered her to her apparent satisfaction.

This was just what I wanted, for we had not as yet in our _parties
carrées_ with the De Grandvits indulged even in bottom-fucking the
women, but this, as we afterwards found, was equally indulged in
private by them as well as ourselves. Now we enjoyed the sight of the
old bawd wriggling in delight with loudly uttered exclamations of
pleasure at having her bottom well fucked, for it was the largest prick
of the four and a very fine one that was into her arse.

We had already racked off in the cunts of each other's wives at the
first display.

"Let us try that," whispered my wife to De Grandvit, "it appears to
give the old woman vast delight."

It was what De Grandvit had been longing for in his inward soul. At the
proposition of my adored wife his cock sprung into its utmost
stiffness. She knelt on a chair before a peep-hole. De Grandvit brought
his fine prick, which he had moistened with his spittle, up to her
delicious hairy arsehole and with very little effort housed it to the
hilt.

At the whispered wish of my darling Florence he did not press to a
rapid conclusion, but drew the fuck out to a most exciting length, and
to an ecstatic ending in which they had great difficulty in suppressing
exclamations of the delight afforded.

I had followed the lead given, the delicious big arsed De Grandvit had,
like her husband, a long previous wish to be so fucked, and from
practice of that divine coition had no difficulty in taking in with
vast pleasure my bigger prick.

We both ran two exquisite courses in their delicious arse-holes, and
then separated that all might see the grand finale of the four
sodomites each in the arse before him, and the fourth front man into
the immense and magnificent arse of the old bawd. This ended their
exhibition.

I should add that all in turn had either fucked or buggered the old
bawd to her infinite gratification both in person and nurse for she
claimed afterwards and received a good additional douceur for the extra
sight of her own fine body, naked and in double action.

When they were dressed she got out the liqueur bottle and gave them all
a dram and a biscuit. We, too, partook of our champagne and biscuits
while discussing the charms of the scenes just witnessed.

My darling wife chimed in with the remark of how much more the middle
man had seemed to enjoy it than the two outsiders.

I added a remark that I had heard that such a position was the _ne plus
ultra_ of delight.

"Then why should we not try it?" said the glorious De Grandvit.

"I quite agree with you," said the husband.

"Who shall begin?" I thought, as the idea of trying it was first
suggested by his wife, she ought to have her own idea first realised in
her magnificent person. I would fuck her while he went into her arse.

This was immediately adopted. I lay down on my back, the delicious De
Grandvit mounted on me, rose and fell, and spent before she stooped on
my belly and presented her splendid arse to her impatient husband, who
for some minutes knelt prick in hand behind her. With gentle care and
well-moistened prick he got housed at last in his wife's delicious
arsehole, and then slowly at first, but more energetically afterwards,
we ran a most exquisite course.

As no one was now in the adjoining chamber, no restraint was put upon
our lascivious exclamations. The De Grandvit was in such a delirium of
ecstasy that she screamed again and died away in absolute annihilation
of all sense but that of the utmost satisfied lust.

My darling wife had straddled across us and been gamahuched deliciously
by De Grandvit while _enculant_ his wife. We next changed the venue; he
fucked my wife while I plunged into her glorious arse; the De Grandvit
straddled across the others, was gamahuched by me as her husband had
gamahuched my wife. This course, too, was run in an ecstasy of
enjoyment to all concerned, and ended our orgy on that occasion. We
arranged our dresses, finished our champagne, called up the old bawd,
satisfied her demands, and thanked her for the exciting scene she had
procured us. On asking her, she admitted that the other peeping rooms
had been occupied by couples, and that one elderly gentleman had had
two of her page boys to operate and be operated upon while the scene
before him excited him to the necessary extent to take a part in it
himself. He had just left, having stayed to listen to our proceedings
and had told her the two gentlemen had in consequence of the scene
witnessed initiated the women into the _double jouissance_, and the
excitement of listening and hearing had enabled him once more to get
into the handsomest boy, and have the other in him.

She hinted that we ought to come again, and have the boys in, for she
said the gentlemen, that is ourselves, would find an immense additional
pleasure in letting the boys penetrate their bottoms while they were
into their ladies in both apertures.

We laughed, and said we should consider her offer, but for the present
we were fucked out.

We did not forget the bawd's proposal of having a boy to fuck us while
_enculant_ the dear women. A hint to my darling wife brought this out
at our next meeting. After the dear creatures had both enjoyed the
_double jouissance_, my wife said to Madame De Grandvit--

"We are really quite selfish, here are our two loved husbands giving us
the unutterable joys of the double junction, and yet not enjoying it
themselves. You remember how the old woman at No. 60 spoke of the
raptures the addition of her boys would be to the bottoms of our
husbands while administering the double coition to us. Why should they
not try the same on themselves, and give us the delight of seeing them
in all the ecstasies their double embrace confers upon us? We know how
they delight in being postillioned, which shows how much they would
like the real thing if they dared avow it. It is for us to break down
the barriers of prejudice and false shame. Here, Charlie, let me
dedicate your bottom to the lust of our dear friend De Grandvit."

My beloved wife was at the moment handling the prick of De Grandvit,
and whose full-standing stiffness showed he was ready to face any
difficulty.

I pretended a fear of its size being too great to allow of entrance
into that narrow path of bliss without great pain to the recipient.

"You can never know that till you try," cried my darling wife.

In all this she was only acting a part prompted by myself, for I was
most anxious not only to have De Grandvit into my own arse, but was
longing to be into his great, coarse, hairy, corrugated deep-brown
arsehole. In this I differed greatly from our dear friend MacCallum,
who loved the delicate unfledged arseholes of youths, while to me it
was necessary to be the very reverse of the fair sex, whose arseholes
in general are of a delicate pink with puckered-up charming little
orifices, which, of course, have their charm; but when with men to me
it was twice as exciting to find them like my dear friend the Count's,
quite contrary to those of the fair sex. Dark-brown, roughly
corrugated, and coarse hairs all round them were the arseholes that
raised all my lust, and made sodomy a delicious contrast to merely
fucking the arse-holes of women; such an arsehole as I most loved to
fuck was M. De Grandvit's.

I had suggested to my wife to tempt him with mine for the sole object
of getting into his. He bit at the bait, so I shoved my prick into his
wife's arse, my wife conducted his prick into my delighted bottom. I
made some affected grimaces, but of course took him in with the
greatest ease. My darling wife had acted postillion to him, and had
frigged his wife with her other hand, so we ran a delicious course of
the wildest lust.

As we had already served out our wives too many fucks one trial was
sufficient for the moment. De Grandvit was in ecstasies at the delight
I had afforded him, especially as he appeared to be revenging the
affront I gave to him by being into his wife _in culo_.

My adored wife, with her happy art of handling and exciting a prick,
nonetheless willingly that she was getting it up to go into her own
hungry and delicious arsehole, soon brought De Grandvit to the
necessary stiffness.

I wanted no other stimulant than the expected satisfaction of a letch I
had long had to be into his fine, rough, hairy arsehole. As soon as he
was fairly hilted in my adored wife's splendid bottom, his better half
took my prick in hand, put it into her mouth to suck and moisten it,
and then guided it into that narrow abode of bliss I so longed to
possess. It really was the first time De Grandvit's arsehole had ever
been penetrated by a prick, although he had long wished for such an
experience; there was therefore some real grimacing, for mine was not a
prick of the ordinary dimensions, that might penetrate any arsehole,
but a prick of the biggest, so I was obliged to be very gentle and make
frequent halts.

My darling wife was obliged to exert all her delicious means of keeping
his fine prick in her arse at full stand by cunt pressures and her
delicate handling of his ballocks; at last I was fully engulphed, and
pausing until all strange feelings had subsided, a gentle movement and
my darling wife's admirable seconding enabled us to end the course in
the wildest ecstasies of the most delicious delight, and to sink on the
broad back of my splendid wife, completely annihilated by the most
exquisite joys of satiated lust.

Once this delicious practice had been indulged in, you may be sure it
did not end with a single experience, but as thereafter the _bonne
bouche_ or finish of all our after-orgies.

My beloved wife, whose eye for a capable man was infallible, had
observed a genteel, tall, good-looking young German waiter in the
hotel, who looked superior to his place. He turned out to be the son of
a wealthy hotel proprietor at Frankfort, who had sent his son to
Meurice's in a sort of apprenticeship, to learn how a large Parisian
hotel was managed. In such a situation they receive no wages and have
even in general to pay a premium for the privilege--this practice,
which is general with German innkeepers, accounts for the number of
genteel-looking waiters that are met with in the large hotels of great
capitals, and who are found to be of superior education and information
when spoken to in a friendly and familiar manner.

This was eminently the case with our friend Carl. My wife had taken
rather a fancy to him, not at first erotic, but observing that after
she had talked to him familiarly that he began to be very deferential
to her and with a certain manner that she, with the instinct of a
woman, saw at once arose from amorous admiration. Casting her eye
downwards she detected the effect produced in his trousers whenever she
was kindly civil to him. She increased her familiar conversation, which
evidently allayed any fear he might have had, and she could soon see by
the increased bulging out of his trousers, not only that he was growing
more lewd upon her, but that he was evidently very well furnished.

Learning that he was the son of a wealthy father, well educated, only
now placed in the position of a servant, in order to know, by obeying,
how to command, and also to gain the experience which large and
well-frequented hotels alone could teach how best to conduct his own
hotel hereafter.

She told me all about it, and thought he might be moulded to our
purposes. Even if not she had taken a caprice to him so that in any
case it would be a gratification to her to possess him.

So I lent myself to aid her by purposely absenting myself either at
breakfast or luncheon, under pretext of going to take one or the other
with bachelor friends.

As Carl was told off to especially attend upon us, and no other servant
ever came near unless rung for, my wife had easy opportunity, and with
her practised skill in seduction, had him into her on the second day.

He proved an admirable stallion; grew passionately lewd on the splendid
person of my wife, and became in fact cunt-struck upon her, probably
the strongest bond that can entangle a man. It becomes an infatuation
that makes him the slave of the cunt that has attracted him. There are
few men of hot temperament who have not experienced this overmastering
infatuation, and they know that even supposing the object becomes
perfectly unworthy, unfaithful, abusive, and with every vice indulged
openly before them, they may wince, they may thoroughly despise her,
but the chain holds them fast in adamantine bonds, which neither the
persuasion of friends nor their own knowledge of the perfect
unworthiness of the object can tear asunder.

Such became the fate of Carl, and my wife moulded him, with all her
wily skill, to our lascivious purposes. When once under her
enchantment, I made a run over to England on some urgent
matters--purposely leaving the field open--my wife completed her
conquest, had had him in every way, had postillioned him, and wormed
out of him that at college he had indulged in sodomitical practices
with young students like himself; but knowing how prejudicial it would
be to him in his profession, he had weaned himself from the habit with
men, but dearly loved the _enculage_ with women, and doubly adored my
wife when he found her extraordinary and exquisite talent in that way.
She also, after much apparent hesitation, in answer to his eager and
continual questioning, omitted that her husband was much addicted to
worshipping her bottom, and had taught her its divine use. She even
cautioned him against any imprudence on my return, for she said she had
her suspicions that I had a letch for men, and if I discovered their
liaison, would be apt to avenge myself that way.

"Oh, if he would still allow me to possess your enchanting person he
might make what use he pleased of me."

This was the point aimed at from the beginning. My wife wrote to me,
and we arranged that I should announce my return for a certain morning,
and that she should have Carl to sleep with her the previous night.

I arrived in the middle of the night, walked into the room, found him
in bed, played the angry husband, swore I must have revenge, and that
as he had cuckolded me I must avenge the affront in being into his
person.

He objected, for form's sake, but said he would yield to anything if I
would not drive him away from the adorable Madame.

"That will depend upon the manner in which you satisfy my desires."

"Oh, do what you like, dear sir, if only you will allow me to love
Madame."

"We shall see, we shall see; let me look at your prick. Oh, a good
size, even when down. Let me see it at full stand."

My wife here interfered, and said Carl was so good that she was sure he
would prove a satisfaction to me. She took his prick in hand, and with
her art of handling a prick, had it at full stand in a minute and asked
me if she could possibly have refused so handsome a prick as that. And,
indeed, it was a very fine one.

Carl was a very fair young man, with a most beautiful and satiny skin.
His prick was exquisitely white, and the blue veins showed themselves
coursing through in a most tempting way--it was seven and a half inches
long, by quite six in circumference, was thick up to the vermilion nut,
although gently diminishing from the roots, the glans was smaller than
the shaft close up to it; a hollow, like what you sometimes see in the
neck of a bottle, ran all round the edge of the nut, and thus made it a
head to the shaft. My wife declared that its shape gave her great
pleasure in both orifices. It certainly was a very attractive prick,
and now that it was at full stand I made him lie on his back on the
bed, took it in my mouth, sucked and frigged it until he spent in an
agony of delight.

I then made him turn over on his belly, that I might admire his
ivory-like buttocks, which I caressed and kissed in every way. My wife
slipping her hand under his belly soon recovered the stiffness of his
prick. I now desired him to kneel that I might be into his bottom.

His exquisitely white buttocks, marble-like in polish, hardness, and
coldness to the touch, were most attractive to women as well as to me.

While thus kneeling with head low, and the chink between the buttocks
well spread open, his exquisite small, pink, corrugated arsehole with
almost invisible fair, short ringlets around it was truly lovely and
exciting.

As a rule, I like to fuck a rough, hairy-arsed man, but I can all the
same appreciate the delight in such an exquisite arse-hole as Carl
possessed. To me also it had the attraction of its first possession.
When thus first fully displayed to my delighted eye, I flung myself on
my knees, kissed and tongued the exquisite and delicious orifice, and
speedily got furiously lewd upon it; and rarely have I fucked an arse
more deliciously incentive to sodomy.

"Oh, poor fellow," cried my wife, "you must let this fine object (his
prick) be housed in me first, and then he will less feel the
introduction of your large instrument."

I immediately consented, on which he cried out in delight--

"Oh do what you like with me, as long as your adorable lady will permit
me to possess her."

"Well," said I, "see, her cunt is reeking with your spunk, so I will
first bathe my prick therein, to make it go easier into your arse."

We took up kneeling positions. He filled the delighted cunt of my wife,
and presented his really beautiful arse to my raging lust. I humoured
the entrance a little, but once within over the nut, I plunged
recklessly forward, somewhat too roughly, for it made him wince, and he
would have escaped from me if he had not been doubly imprisoned. The
pause I gave him after being fully engulphed calmed the strange
sensation, and we gradually increased our movements until both died
away in excessive delight, especially to him, for it was his first
experience of _la double jouissance_, and it gave him such exquisite
enjoyment that he begged me not to withdraw, but to run a second
course. My darling wife thinking it would increase his lewdness if she
changed his prick from her cunt to the more divine orifice, withdrew
it, and placed it in the grove sacred to the secret rites of Priapus.

He enjoyed the ecstasies of paradise on this last occasion, and we all
fell on the bed completely overcome by the soul-killing joys of the
discharge, and lay soaking in all the after-pleasure for some time,
until my darling wife begged us to relieve her of our overpowering
weight. We rose and purified ourselves, and then I posed him standing
up, admiring the really fine proportions and beauty of his handsome
fair form. I sucked his prick until it stood, and then told him he must
give me the pleasures of the middle, which he was so highly praising as
the utmost exquisite enjoyment he had ever experienced.

My darling wife was delighted. She got on her knees. I entered her
delicious cunt in the first bout, and I quickly housed Carl's prick in
my arse.

We ran an exquisite course, and then a second with only a change of my
prick to Florence's arse instead of cunt. Carl was after this obliged
to leave us, as the morning was getting on.

I sent him away the happiest of men by telling him as long as he placed
his arse at my disposal, he should have my wife always at the same time.

Thus we had secured another fine prick to our general orgies. We told
the Grandvits of our fortunate _trouvaille_.

Monsieur made some difficulty about his being a servant, and the fear
of discovery of our orgies through his indiscretion; but hearing that
he was much superior to a servant he consented to his introduction.

After they had seen and admired him, they expressed their extreme
satisfaction at the result of his joining us--for both Madame and
Grandvit loved to have him into all their orifices. We could now fuck
both women at once, and the double pleasure could be given to either
sex without there being any outsider.

Every third night they slept in our hotel, and that night we never
ceased conjunctions in every variety, with pauses for refreshment,
purification, pleasant bawdy talk, fun, and frolic. For a month longer
this delicious existence lasted, and then it was time for us to proceed
southward. We parted from the Grandvits with much regret, but promised
to return in the spring and visit them at their country house. I may
here add that we did so, and enjoyed our visit to the utmost; and, in
the second year of our absence, they accompanied us into Germany, where
at last we left dear Carl. He had begged us to let him go as my valet
with us to Italy.

His intended stay in Paris was within a month of its termination; he
wrote to his father that the opportunity of travelling through Italy
under the offer we had made was too advantageous to be lost. His father
consented, and thus for eighteen months he was our constant companion
and participator in all our lascivious conjunctions.

Carl accompanied us to London on our first return home, and resided
with us for three months. I told the Benson and the Egerton of our good
fortune in discovering him, and the exquisite addition to our party of
us and the De Grandvits he had been.

They were instantly alive to the delight of possessing him.

I had continued the occupation of my chambers in the Temple, in which
Harry Dale still resided; it was there we erected our altar to the
Apostrophian Venus, and held our orgies.

Carl delighted our old friends, who were never tired of having him one
way or another, while Harry or I administered to the _double
jouissance_.

A new prick to a woman is like a fresh cunt to a man, and for the time
gives additional zest to the lust which rages in us. So it is with the
darling Benson and the lovely Egerton. They revelled in the possession
of Carl. They knew they could only have him but a short time, and they
made the most of him.

My beloved wife, with that kindly consideration for every one which
distinguished her, quite abandoned Carl to these two dear insatiable
cunts, and contented herself with presiding over our orgies, dictating
new and exciting poses to our two friends, leaving Carl and me to their
embraces, and consoling herself with a fuck now and then from Harry
Dale, when we two were simply fucking each his dame. She told them, "I
can have Carl and Charlie whenever I like at home, so must leave them
to you for the three months that Carl can only give us."

We met thrice a week. My wife used to drive to the dear creatures and
take them up, the husbands being much gratified at the affection shown
by my wife to them, and never having the slightest suspicion of the
object my wife had in taking them out. As to our own servants they knew
the chambers belonged to their master, and they knew we lunched there,
but they never imagined their mistress would take ladies to share in
their master's embraces. So that we carried on our intrigue in perfect
safety and impunity.

It was a sad day when we left with Carl, who never again returned to
England. Our darling companions had become much attached to him, and
parted with close embraces, and with bitter tears bade him adieu.

We parted from him at Frankfort, where his father, retiring to a
country life, left him proprietor of a capital hotel, to which in
after-years we often resorted when going to and from the German spas,
and always stayed some days to renew the orgies we all so loved. His
love for my adored wife's cunt endured for ten or twelve years, when an
advantageous marriage softened it, perhaps more through the jealousy of
his wife who, suspecting, caused us to desist from using his hotel. He
had also got a family of a boy and two girls growing up, which
completely ended our acquaintance.

To return to the time of our conducting him to Frankfort with the
Grandvits, they afterwards accompanied us in a tour in Switzerland, but
left us at Sion, when we turned our steps across the Simplon to Italy.

We were invited by our friend the Count to visit him for a month at his
old castle in the hills of San Giovanni, overlooking all the ground of
Bonaparte's earlier battles in his first Italian campaign.

We followed the right bank of Lake Maggiore to Arona and Allessandria,
and thence by Acqui gained the castle of the Count on the hill above.
It was situated in the midst of glorious scenery. From the summit of a
hill near the glorious line of the _Alps_ could be seen Monte Rosa,
Mont Blanc, Mont Cenis, Monte Giovi, and thence round the Apennines,
while the Gap leading to Savona gave a view of the sea, the southern
suburb of Genoa, and the line of coast leading to Spezia.

It was a glorious view, and we often directed our steps to the summit
from whence it was seen during our month's stay with our loved and
delightful host.

His old castle was only partially ruinous, but quite habitable.
However, his father had built a comfortable house in the garden, at the
base of the rock.

The castle crowned a perfect perpendicular detached mass of rock, half
round which rushed a mountain torrent, the approach being a very steep
zigzag with now ruinous defences, a very steep and difficult ascent. It
is true from a low entranced cave at the foot a secret stair led up
from the garden, of which I shall have more to say in relating some
incidents of the Count's earlier history, as confessed to us in our
close and intimate intercourse.

We were warmly welcomed by our dear friend, who, leading us to our
rooms, had a rack-off of his waste steam in the ever delicious cunt of
my loved wife, who, it will be recollected, had a great penchant for
the Count, when she used to prefer him at our Percy Street orgies. When
the Count retired, I plunged my excited prick into the balmy bath he
had prepared for me in my wife's cunt, fucking her fast and furiously
the instant he retired, a change she loved above all things; this
calmed us for the moment, and enabled our waiting for night.

We had expected to find a young sister of the Count with him but at our
orgy at night he told us that since his return home he had had this
sister, and that in fact at that moment she was staying with an
accoucheuse at Turin, and he expected to hear of her delivery by every
post. We congratulated him on finding so delicious a bit of incest to
his hand on his return to his country.

"Ah!" said he, "it is much more delicious than you think."

"Indeed, how is that?"

"She is my own daughter as well as sister."

"What a delicious idea!" cried I, "what a cockstand, and what a fuck it
must have been to you! But you must have had your own mother to bring
about such a delicious result. Do let us hear all about it, my dear
Count, it will excite us all to renewed efforts, as incest always does."

This conversation occurred during a long pause we had made in our first
night's orgy when quietly seated after purification, restoring our
powers with Champagne and some slight refreshments prepared by our host
for the occasion. We had already had three hours of the most delicious
fucking in every possible combination, being all, especially the Count,
fresh and in excellent order for a thorough excess. So we all were glad
of a respite, and listened to the exciting story of the Count's
delicious double incest. As we did not hear all at that sitting, I will
finish an account of our doings, and then give a connected narrative or
sketch of that strange intrigue, and some other of his earlier
escapades, merely adding that his account of his affair with his mother
set us all off in such an excitement of lust, followed by such an
excess of fucking in bouts of _double jouissance_, in which not only my
adored and most lascivious wife came in for her full share, but both
the Count and myself enjoyed the double bliss in our turn. We carried
on to such an excess that we were quite knocked up, and were so
overpowered with sleep the next evening that by common consent we
quietly went to bed, and deferred till morning any fresh deeds in the
fields of love and lust.

We found this so refreshing to our powers of fucking that we regularly
adopted the system of lying fallow the earlier portion of every other
night.

We passed a most agreeable time with walks and rides through the lovely
scenery, and explorations of the old castles.

The Count himself had two, but the one immediately above his house was
by far the most interesting and was the original seat of his ancestors,
wild robber barons of their day; and a black deed was reported in the
traditions of the peasantry around.

The castle, although in a valley between the hills, stood on a high
perpendicular isolated rock some hundred-and fifty feet above its base;
it was crowned with a very high building to make up for want of space
at the foundation, and had besides a very lofty and bold round tower,
rising high enough above the sides of the valley to serve as a lookout
beyond them. The habitable part was reached from the main gate by a
steep stair, at one of the landings was a trap door opening upon a
profoundly deep shaft; tradition said that this was a trap for personal
enemies, who, on pretence of reconciliation were invited to the castle;
on passing over the trap it opened, and they were precipitated to the
bottom. It was the common tradition of the peasantry that wheels with
scythes attached chopped them to pieces at the bottom.

It is a curious fact, and one showing how tradition may preserve a
truth where least expected. Our friend the Count for six months lay
hidden in the secret recesses of this old castle at the time a price
was set on his head for treason. This had led him to all sorts of
explorations, in which he had discovered many hiding places.

Knowing of this tradition about the cutting up of bodies at the bottom
of this deep shaft he got his two younger brothers to let him down by a
long cord, and really found the remains of machinery and wheels with
rusty blades attached.

After he had finally escaped, a more regular search was made, and it
was discovered that a communication with the torrent on a former higher
level had let the water pass underneath the castle, and turn a water
wheel which cut up the bodies and made them float away by the outlet.
Human skulls and bones were found, singularly verifying the truth of
tradition.

At the time the Count was a fugitive hiding therein, the old apartments
were used as a granary to store the rent in kind of his father's
tenantry. As there were suspicions of his having taken refuge here, the
place had been two or three times ransacked by the police without their
discovering him--thanks to the ingenious hiding places he had
discovered.., But for this very reason every precaution had to be
taken, and no beds, bedding, or plates, knives, chairs, or tables were
there; he slept on the corn, spread three feet thick on the floor, or
sat on it when tired. His mother, with provisions under her petticoats,
would saunter in the garden, and, when unobserved, slip into the low
cavern and ascend by the secret stairs, and seated on the corn by his
side, would wait until he had done, to take everything away, and leave
not a trace of any one being provisioned up there. These details are
explanatory of what follows. The Count had been one of the Royal Guard
for two years at Turin, and being a handsome young fellow, had as much
fucking at command as he could wish for. When shut up for months in his
asylum the passions that had been kept under by constant gratification
began to torment him; from the loopholes of the castle he could see the
peasant women working on the mountainside, and, in stooping, showing
their legs even up to the bare skin, and this used to drive him mad
with desire. He did not frig himself, but at night stole down to the
garden, secured a large pumpkin or two, took them up to his retreat,
cut small holes in their sides, and then thrust his stiff-standing
prick into them, forcing the hole to the size of his prick, and then
working the pumpkin with both hands till he spent deliciously; he used
to get six or seven fucks in these artificial cunts, then throw away
the finished one on the torrent side of the castle. This was so far a
relief, but his lust grew fiercer every day, and on one occasion became
uncontrollable.

His mother, who had married at fifteen, was now a fine ripe woman in
her thirty-sixth year. One day, after setting down the things she had
brought up, she lifted her outer gown that she might not show she had
been sitting on corn; the Count was already seated much below her body
on the low corn. His mother accidentally on this occasion drew up all
her clothes, showing the whole of her fine arse, and in stooping
backwards to seat herself all her fine hairy and gaping cunt was
visible to his lower sight. This was too much for the Count, in a
moment his prick sprang to the fiercest stand, he instantly unbuttoned
his trousers; his mother finding she had brought her bare arse onto the
corn, leant over on the side opposite to her son to tuck her petticoats
under her arse, but the Count seized her round the waist with one arm,
with his body pressed on her already bent body, forced her quite down
on her side and was into her cunt up to the hilt, he thrust it up so
fiercely as not only to make her shriek with surprise, but also with
pain. She struggled to be free, but was held down with all the energy
of his ferocious lust. Very few thrusts in and out were required to
bring down the first rush of his sperm; this lubricated her cunt, his
prick never, yielded, but stood as stiff as ever, and with hardly an
instant's pause he recommenced a more delicious action than the
previous one. His mother, however, was much distressed in mind at the
first horror of the incest, but being a ripe woman of hot lubricity,
could not feel a fine prick deliciously belabouring her cunt without
having her lust excited in spite of herself. As all pain of the
unprepared forcing of her cunt had passed away, and the plentiful rush
of her son's spunk lubricated all the passage, she soon could not
control her passions, and seconded him with an art which left nothing
to desire. His long deprivation fired him to unusual efforts, and he
fucked her five times before he withdrew.

When she sat up she said, "Oh! Ferdinand, what have you done! How could
you do so? Violate your own mother. It is dreadful."

The poor Count, seeing her much distressed, burst into tears, threw his
arms round her neck, and weeping told her he could not help it.

She patted his head, and said. "Poor fellow, poor fellow."

On this he lifted his head to kiss her. She, too, wept, and they
mingled tears and caresses together; this almost instantly restored his
prick to its pristine stiffness. He bent his mother back on the corn,
and although she resisted a little, and said it was too dreadful his
wanting to commit such a sin again, she opened her legs when he got
over her, and did not prevent his pulling up her petticoats.

He was into her this-time-well-moistened and really longing cunt, for
her passions were now become lascivious.

Thrice more did he fuck her, each time more delicious than the others,
and in all seconded by the most splendid action of his mother's arse,
and the most exciting pressures of the inner folds of her really
delicious cunt.

At last she left him, but after so delightful a commencement every day
saw a renewal of these delicious encounters.

His mother proved an adept in every resource of lust. Being a
splendidly made woman, and salacious in the extreme, when once she had
given way to her lubricity, she indulged in every whim of lust. She
always, after a few days' fucking, came very lightly dressed, with no
stays or other encumbrances, so that they used to strip and fuck at
ease in every way. The Count assured us that much as he had since
enjoyed some of the finest women, never had one given greater pleasure
than his delicious, lewd, and salacious mother, doubtless the fact of
it being incest added to the usual gratification given by a ripe,
well-made, luscious-cunted woman.

After the first week of their delicious encounters, his mother said to
him, "My dear Ferdinand, we are very imprudent, you may get me with
child if we do not adopt precautions. Your father does not wish to have
any more children, and takes care not to get them."

"How does he prevent it, my dear mamma?"

"Well dearest, he goes slowly to work, and while he has it in me rubs
his finger on the point where you are now feeling (he was gently
rubbing up her clitoris, a well-developed one) until he has made me
enjoy it several times, and when he finds he is about to discharge he
suddenly withdraws it, and pushes the head of it into my bottom and
spends there. You must do the same, but you must not put all this long
thick fellow in. Oh! come to my arms, my son, you have excited me until
I must have it immediately."

Upon which the Count mounted and fucked so deliciously that with arms
and legs round his body and loins, devil a bit would she allow him to
withdraw, but spent with him most ecstatically, and quickly called for
more, so that it was not until the third time of his being about to
spend, that throwing her fine legs high in the air, and bringing her
arse with a heave well up, and taking his prick out with her hand, she
guided it to the delicious smaller orifice, and as all was reeking with
the previous discharge, slipped it in, not the head only, but the whole
shaft. She cried out, "Not so far, not so far," but as he began shoving
in and out she quickly got excited, and wriggled her arse with all her
accustomed skill, and spent deliciously again as he shot his spunk
right up into her incestuous entrails.

He passed a hand between their bodies to press a finger on her
clitoris, this made her cunt throb, which was felt by his prick, and
quickly sent him up upon another delicious enjoyment of the tight
recess of obscene lust, and a second most exquisite and luscious course
was run, equally to his mother's as to his satisfaction. Then he
withdrew to relieve her body of the weight she had so long sustained,
they mutually embraced their naked bodies, and sweetly conversed on the
exquisite joys they had just participated in. His mother declared his
father gave her nothing like the lascivious joys she received from his
dear son. They toyed and kissed until, handling his prick with skill,
she got two more delicious fucks, one in each receptacle, and parted
for the day.

By the second month she discovered that what she dreaded had happened.
Her son had got her with child; she wept when she communicated this
unfortunate result, but the Count, like me, always stood fiercely at a
woman's tears. Several splendid fucks followed, all in the cunt--the
mischief was done, and precautions were no longer necessary.

His mother abandoned herself to him with a greater excess of lust than
she had ever yet done, and fucked with an excellence, vigour, and
energy that drew from him eight discharges in a wonderfully short time.
The fact of his having put a baby into her appeared to stimulate both
their passions. She declared she never in her life had enjoyed fucking
more. They used the grossest bawdy terms in their intercourse, as if it
was one barrier more broken down between them, and made their
incestuous love more exciting and a greater destruction of all natural
ties between them.

Before parting they consulted about how best to fix the parentage on
her husband.

He was a man of fifty-five, and, therefore, past the ardour of
passion--taking even his fucking coolly--and, therefore, more difficult
to hoodwink.

She knew that he awoke with a cockstand, although that did not always
lead to a fuck. Upon this they founded their hopes, and at last
arranged she should drug his coffee, and when still asleep in the
morning she should handle his prick, get him up, turn her bum, put it
into her cunt, work him gently, make him spend which would awake him,
hold him in, pretend she herself was in the acme of delight, but on
coming to her senses, upbraid him with having spent inside.

This all happened as planned, he did awake on spending, but his wife
exerted such unusually delicious pressures upon his delighted prick,
that he got so excited as to fuck her in and she took care he should
spend inside a second time-'she pretended to be carried away by passion
as much as he was. But remonstrating afterwards upon the imprudence of
what he had done, especially in having so excited her that she could
not help spending at the instant he did, which made it more dangerous.
She did not know how it was but she had never before seemed to receive
such pleasure from him as he had given her that morning.

"Well, my darling, it is a curious coincidence, but you never seemed to
me more delicious or more lasciviously excellent in your fucking than
you did just now. As it is but once let us take more care in future,
and hope nothing will come of this little and delightful imprudence."

But of course there did, as the Count related to us, and seven months
after this morning fucking my mother gave birth to a daughter. "I had
already been in exile for five months when this event came off, I had
letters from my mother after she got about and for some years
afterwards, telling me that my sister was a beautiful child, and
growing up _the image of her father_, underlining those words for me,
to put the true construction on them. Poor darling mamma, she died four
years ago, and my father followed her two years later. I never saw
either of them again.

"Before I escaped from Italy I had passed five months in the constant
possession of my beloved mother. As her pregnancy advanced her
salacious avidity for my embraces seemed to increase. She was
insatiable, but with such variety of charm and art that I never failed
to answer to her call. Every refinement and excess of the wildest and
grossest lust was practised by us.

"My father possessed a small collection of the grossest bawdy books; my
adored and salacious mother purloined from time to time the lewdest, we
read and excited ourselves in the realisation of the wildest and
grossest scenes therein depicted.

"My mother was an instance of a woman getting once out of bounds and
then stopping short of no excess, and became boundlessly corrupt. There
was no horror we two could possibly commit that we did not indulge in.

"My father, when once the pregnancy was undoubted, was less reticent of
his fucks. My mother at my request used to stimulate him to fuck her
just before coming up to me, so that I used to shove my prick into the
paternal sperm, sometimes in her cunt, and sometimes in her arse, and
eventually used to lick it up before fucking her either way. The incest
of her son upon the immediate fuck of her husband was, she said, the
most stimulating to her excessive lust of anything I could possibly do.

"My father was obliged to go to Turin for ten days; it was the time of
new moon, when nights were dark. My mother used to put on a dark cloak
and come up to me; we lay down on her cloak, and, stark naked, gave
ourselves up to the wildest lust until dawn, when mother slipt away to
the house and left me well inclined to sleep until she returned with my
food.

"Oh! it was a happy time, its combinations of solitude and incest,
combined with my lusty youth, for I was only nineteen years old at that
time, made me be constantly at her call, and she never went away before
her excessive lust had been satisfied for the moment. Had circumstances
permitted her to stay with me longer than she usually did, she would
have got more frequent fucks out of me; at night, when she could come,
she got ten and sometimes eleven discharges from me, and probably
herself spent twice as often. I was indefatigable.

"In all her after-letters to me she constantly avowed grief that she
had lost her most loved son; that she was inconsolable, punning on the
con in the word, which is French for 'cunt.'

"Various allusions of that sort were in all her loving letters. Often
and often when I have been slack in fucking a woman, and my prick not
answering when called on, I had only to conjure up some of these scenes
with my mother when my cock would spring to the stand instantly, to the
immense satisfaction of my momentary _fouteuse_, and it is so yet, a
thought of her reanimates it at once."

Here my adored wife slipped her hand under his dressing gown, and found
his prick standing fiercely, she seized it, and pretending to be his
mother, cried out--

"Come, oh, come! my beloved Ferdinand, into your own loving mother's
arms."

She fell back on the couch, he got between her legs, kneeling on the
floor, having thrown off his robe, exhibiting his fine hairy arse--one
of those I so dearly loved. The sight fired my salacious prick, so
kneeling behind, I guided it into his arsehole, and while he fucked my
adored wife, I sodomised his superb arse. We ran two delicious courses,
then my wife took me in her cunt, while the Count buggered his supposed
mother, for that stimulating idea was kept up. A second fuck followed
in the same pose, with both her apertures filled to satiety.

This concluded that delicious orgy; we had a half night's rest the
following night, as usual, to recruit, that we might better enjoy a
perfect excess on the subsequent night.

It was in this way we kept up our powers, and only near the end of our
visit had we any occasion to apply the birch, and that to no great
excess.

It was in the middle of the second night that the Count continued his
recital of the result of the intrigue with his mother. His
sister-child, for she was both, was born in his first year's exile.
Beyond his mother's description of her, that she was growing up a
beautiful girl, the image of her father, meaning her son, the Count, he
had no other intelligence of her. She had just turned eleven when her
mother died; for two years after that sad event she kept house for her
father.

He then dying, the second brother took possession of the property. As
the state had deprived him of all civil rights, the property was given
up to the brother. On his return, after being amnestied, the Count had
to go to law with his brother to get back his property. His
sister-daughter, who had been unhappy with her brother's wife, gladly
left them to keep house with the Count. She was then in her seventeenth
year, splendidly developed in bosom and bottom, lovely and lustful
deep-brown eyes, the very image of her father, although she only knew
him as her brother. The recollection of the fierce joys he had had with
his own and her mother, drove him wild with lust to possess the
incestuous fruit of his intrigue with his own mother. He used of an
evening after dinner to have her sit on his knee while he related his
adventures abroad, intermingled with kissing and toying. He praised her
splendid bubbles and felt them; he said he could not believe that her
immense prominence behind was real unless he felt the bare skin. With
little resistance this was permitted once, then indulged in, until from
less to more he got to feeling and frigging her cunt, while he put his
own standing prick into her caressing hand. There could be but one end
of this. He took her maidenhead, and then she crept into his bed every
night. He initiated her into every excess of venery, and ended by
getting her with child. It was concealed as long as possible, and then,
on pretence of a visit to a friend at Turin, to see some fetes, he
conducted her to an _accoucheuse_, and left her there until her
parturition was over.

I may here mention that just five weeks after that event came off we
met them at Turin, on our way home from Venice. She was a beautiful
girl. The Count introduced us as old friends, with whom every thing
could be done in common.

We stopped a fortnight, and initiated her into all the mysteries and
extravagancies of the wildest lust, and she proved apt a scholar that
she almost equalled in action and enjoyment the greater experience of
my beloved wife.

The Count had taken apartments at Turin for the winter, and finding his
sister-daughter so facile a pupil he intended getting up a _partie
carrée_ to continue these delightful orgies. His child was a lovely
fruit of double incest, and gave promise of being a lovely woman. Her
mount was charmingly plump, and the pouting lips of her delicious
little cunt were already lust-exciting. The Count hoped he would be
able to fuck her when old enough and promised me a participation when
the time came.

I may here add he had her always to bed with him, and his sister-mother
every morning, and in the bath with him.

She grew up admirably developed. From between seven and eight years old
he gamahuched her delighted cunt; at eight began rubbing his prick on
her clitoris, and by nine had gradually stretched it that he could
enter nearly his whole length, and spend there.

We long knew each other, and he always said he was practising the
lesson my adored wife Florence had instructed him in, when relating to
us the incidents of her earlier days, and of her gradual violation by
her own father.

I shall defer this story that I may at once describe the after-fate of
this beautiful child, whom I and my wife have since often enjoyed
between us, when she was entrusted to us by her father.

After a visit to us in England he left her to perfect her English for
six months with us. We certainly perfected her erotic education while
she perfected herself in English by her own ready talent for language,
for although only in her sixteenth year, she spoke five languages
perfectly, besides all the local dialects of Italy, which differ
greatly from each other. Her stay with us was much prolonged, for at
the time she was about to leave us she proved to be with child by me.
In due course of time she was safely delivered of a daughter.

Her father, who came over to take her home after the advent, ceded the
dear little object of my connection with her mother to my wife's
prayers.

We had no children of our own, and she would adopt her. The Count, who
in his heart was delighted at the proposition, left her with us. He
afterwards had a son by this beautiful and charming daughter and
granddaughter of his at one and the same time.

It is now long years ago, and that son legally adopted is now Count in
succession after his father's death.

We paid many visits during these years to each other, during which the
Count related to us some of the episodes in his life, which I give in
his own words--

"You ask me to relate my first experiences. My earliest initiation into
the secret mysteries of love's recess was rather a curious one, and one
which ended very disagreeably for the fair nun who sought to teach me
the gentle art of love.

"You must know that after Bonaparte's first conquest of Northern Italy,
when he had turned the Alps by the Savona depression, and by the
battles of Montenotte and others in that neighbourhood, gained the
interior plains and carried all before him, Piedmont was annexed, and
after the then French fashion, all church property was seized. Monks
and nuns were turned loose in the world, with a promise of small
pensions which never were paid. A nun of a convent in our neighbourhood
was one thus thrown on the world. To sustain life she opened a little
school for boys and girls of tender age. The neighbouring gentry,
willing to assist a worthy creature reduced to poverty by no fault of
her own, sent their children to her for primary instruction; my mother
had taken a great fancy to Sister Bridget, as she was called, and I was
sent to her school. I had just entered into my twelfth year, but was a
fine grown boy of my age, and I can remember that my prick when
standing in the morning had already shown proofs of fair development,
which gave promise of its future prominence I think I was the biggest
boy in the school, all the others being two or three years my juniors.
I was in perfect ignorance as to the relation between the different
sexes. The nun seemed to have taken a fancy to me, she used to embrace
me with her arms, and kiss me with very pouting lips, and I could feel
that she seemed to suck in my breath. She made me stand very close to
her in repeating my lessons, her arms or elbows, apparently by
accident, were always pressed against the spot where my, at first
insensible, prick lay hid. Without knowing how it came about, these
sort of accidental pressures at last excited it to stand, which she, no
doubt on the watch, was delighted to perceive. Seeing how she could now
excite it to the point she wished to arrive at, she said aloud one
day--'Fernandino, you must stay to repeat that lesson after the school
rises. You want a little extra instruction which I cannot give you
while occupied with all the class.' I thought this a kindness on her
part, but her object was very different. When all had gone and we were
left alone, she desired me to come nearer, the elbow played its usual
game, my cock stood, she pressed harder against it, then cried out,
'Dear me! what is that hard thing in your trousers? let me see.' She
unbuttoned them, put in her soft hand, and drew out my prick. 'How
curious that is. Is it always so?' 'No, not always.' 'When how comes it
so now?' 'I don't know, but sometimes in moving to show me my lesson
your elbow touches it, and it gets into that state.' All this time she
was handling my prick in the gentlest and most exciting manner, indeed
she very quickly produced the spasmodic joys of heaven thus brought
down to mortal man, of course with only the nervous result. This was
all that was attempted the first time, when she told me to button up,
saying that it was a very bad thing to encourage that habit, and I must
be prudent and not let others know of its being improperly hard and
stiff.

"This sort of thing continued for a day or two. Finding I had said
nothing about it to any one, she proceeded to effect her grand object.
I was kept in as before. She excited me as usual, and soon had it out
stiff-standing. 'Now,' said she, 'I will initiate you into love's
mysteries. I see you are discreet and can be trusted; lie down on your
back on this school form.' I did so. She lifted my shirt, my trousers
were already down on my legs, she felt the shaft and appendages, then
kneeling by my side she sucked it deliciously until it felt as if it
would burst. She then rose and straddled over the low form and my body,
pulled her petticoats up to her navel, and to my great surprise showed
an immense thick mass of hair, covering the whole of her lower belly.
Guiding my prick to the entrance of her cunt, she gradually engulphed
the little object by letting her body descend upon it. I felt a certain
smarting of pain in her first movements, and my prick partially
softened, but quickly regained all its stiffness by the pleasure she
gave me by her up and down movements on it. I went off as before in a
paroxysm of choking delight; she, too, spent, for I was conscious of a
stream of warm liquid flowing on my cock. She tightly held me where I
was, and by cunt pressures quickly brought it up to full stiffness
again, and a second delightful paroxysm followed.

"After this I fairly shrank to nothing, and dropped out. On rising I
saw that there was a wetness streaked with blood all over my cock and
cods; boylike, the sight of blood frightened me, and I began to cry,
she wiped it all off, and skinned back my prick to wipe under it but
here the raw surface made it painful, and even drew a show of blood;
previously my foreskin had been attached to the projecting edge of the
nut, her action of sinking on it had torn it off and forced it down on
the shaft, doubtless this is the maidenhead of a boy, and hence the
first smarting pain and the slight loss of blood that followed. She
tried to detain me that she might get some warm water, which she told
me would put it all to rights. I was too frightened, and ran off home
crying all the way, and like a stupid lubberly boy, sought my mother
and told her all what Sister Bridget had done and showed how sore she
had made my cock. My mother, enraged, ran at once to the school, where
in a back room Sister Bridget resided-berated her well, and in her
anger let it all out, so that the poor woman, lost all her scholars,
and was reduced to perfect poverty. However, a young Count in the
neighbourhood, who had been long trying to have her, now persuaded her
to accept his protection; she had the wisdom to make him settle
indefeasibly a pension upon her, so as to be safe from future
abandonment. I, of course, soon regretted the stupidity of my conduct.
As soon as cured of the slight soreness of my cock, my imagination
recurred to the pleasure her handling and sucking had given me, and the
delicious paroxysms she had produced, but, alas! all too late. However,
now I was awakened to the true use of a prick, and our women servants
and the peasant girls in the neighbourhood, who knew of my affair with
the nun, gave me encouragement, and I fucked them right and left, in
the fields, under the bushes, in stables or lofts, and carried on this
for a year; but at last I was discovered by my father, and sent off to
college at Savona. Colleges in Italy have schools attached for younger
students like your King's College, in London.

"Here I found a youngster but six months older than me, the son of a
friend of my family. I told him the story of my affair with the nun. We
used to get leave to go to the water closet from different masters, so
as not to be supposed to go together by design. From feeling our cocks
and frigging ourselves until we spent, which we both now could do, my
friend suggested that I should put it into his bottom, which a young
usher in his first school had taught him to do. He was a plump,
good-looking lad, with wonderfully large buttocks, and with an arsehole
which from the usher's practice, whose cock was full grown, was so
widened and sunk in that it really looked more like a vulva than an
arsehole. By this time my cock was nearly as large as it is now,
notwithstanding it entered up to the hilt without difficulty, and I
used to fuck him most deliciously. It is a curious fact that he liked
to be the recipient, and to be frigged by me at the same time. Although
he got into my arsehole a few times it was merely from curiosity; his
letch was to be fucked and frigged. While at college together this
quite satisfied us, and we never sought the dangerous intercourse of
the strumpets of the town, and so avoided the horrible diseases that so
many of our fellow students suffered from, many for all their lives
after. For years this agreeable intercourse lasted, and was only cut
short by my exile.

"Meanwhile, on my return home for the vacation, I had not forgotten
Sister Bridget, and longed intensely to renew my acquaintance with her.
I easily discovered her abode; meeting her one day she scowled at me,
and turned off in another direction. But I found out she had a
favourite walk in a lonely direction. I hid myself until she approached
too near to get away, seized her hand, implored her to forgive the
folly of a mere boy, who had ever regretted his ignorant stupidity, but
who was now a man, and longed to prove his devotion to her. Here I had
unbuttoned my trousers with the other hand, and pulled out a very fair
prick, at full stand.

"'There!' cried I, 'see how the recollection of the paradise I lost
grieves him to the heart, let the poor dumb creature plead for me.'

"I placed the hand I held upon it, she grasped it tightly--

"'O! Fernandino, I always loved you, and but for your indiscretion
should have had you all myself for months.' I threw my arms round her
neck, our mouths met in a loving kiss, her tongue darted fire into my
soul. I drew her, a willing participator, into some side bushes. She
sank on the ground, her legs fell apart; I lifted her petticoats, her
rich fleece and palpitating cunt were irresistible, I flung myself upon
her, I gamahuched her until she spent twice, and then fucked her three
times before I withdrew. I would willingly have continued the delicious
junction, but that she implored me for prudence' sake to rise. We
parted, but not before arranging for other meetings, which took place
in woods and barns, wherever most convenient. Her protector going for a
week to Turin during one of my vacations, I was admitted to her room at
night by climbing the roof of an outhouse, and then stark naked we
indulged in every excess. She was hot and lewd to the utmost, a
splendidly made woman, with an insatiable cunt when once our sports
began. She was, as I before mentioned, most hairy, had a well-developed
clitoris, and fucked with as much pleasure in the rear attack as in her
tight delicious throbbing cunt. She loved above all things to gamahuche
a prick, sucked it most charmingly, but with greater art licked around
the hollow below the nut, and down the under side of the prick, with an
occasional lick of the ballocks, all in so exciting a manner that no
matter how often I had fucked her, she was sure to get another and
another. This charming intrigue continued until I went to Turin.

"During my connection with Sister Bridget I learnt the whole history of
her convent life. She was forced to take the veil by her family, much
against her will, for she even then felt the prickly sensation of
desire, making her cunt throb at the idea of coition with the male sex.
She quickly found a friend with similar desires, but more experience,
who first taught her all the art of tribadism, and then confessed to
having connection with the youngest father confessor. This priest came
once a week to confess the nuns, to confess their liaison, and to let
him inflict what penalty he liked. He told her he would flog her, and
then punish her where she sinned, which, in fact, meant putting his
prick into her cunt when in a kneeling position. This sort of thing was
done to see if she took it in with gusto, and when it was found that
was the case, their hour of confession was a scene of every excess,
stark naked, for neither wore aught but the frock of monk or nun. This
delicious indulgence lasted until the dissolution of the convent, and
you know the rest."

Another recital of the Count much amused us. The Count was admitted at
seventeen into the Royal Guard, where each private was born a
gentleman, and held the rank of sub-lieutenant in the army. Here he had
many intrigues, and took the maidenhead of a charming and beautifully
made girl, who was being brought up for the stage as an opera dancer,
for which she showed early capacity. She proved a great success when
brought forward. She dearly loved our friend, and was supposed to be
faithful to him, although she had developed excessive wantonness and
lubricity under his able tuition. His flight and exile separated them.

Years afterwards he met a lovely, magnificent, fully developed woman,
splendidly attired, walking in the Regent's Park, He did not recognise
her, but was looking at her with longing eyes, when suddenly she seized
him by the arm, and exclaimed in the patois of Piedmont, "Ces tu si!
Buzaron." (Is that thou thyself, Buzaron). This latter word is a
familiar expression of carnal affection, but, literally, is "big
bugger."

Their intercourse became of the warmest, she was now a first-rate
_danseuse_, very highly paid.

The Count had first had her, she really loved him, and in London stuck
faithfully to him, for love alone, for she never would accept even the
smallest present. She, of course, had plenty of splendid offers from
noblemen, but as long as the Count would have her she was faithful to
him. When, which a knowing woman's tact senses, she saw a falling off,
she released him, and, although never refusing her person to him, took
to others as well. She was a very lovely bird, and used to relate the
erotic experiences of her previous years. Many of these were most
amusing, but one in especial showed the ardent nature of her
temperament. She had accepted, when dancing at Genoa, an eligible offer
from the Lisbon Opera proprietors, and had to take passage on an
Italian brig; she was the only passenger, and her berth was in the same
open cabin as that of the captain and mate. On the second day out the
captain showed signs of wishing to have her. She was already longing
for a fuck, to which she had been daily habituated on shore, so she
lent herself most willingly to his desires; from him to the mate, and
eventually to all the ship's company, without any jealousy of captain
or mate; for the system in those days made captain and crew all equally
interested in the success of the voyage from the terms of their
agreement.

The captain, mate and carpenter were owners of the vessel. The crew of
a boatswain and four picked men received food, mostly dried fish, but
no wages. They were entitled to a certain share of the profits of the
voyage, and thus were interested in its success, and on very different
terms of intimacy with the captain to what ordinary sailors could be.

The voyage lasted six weeks, and during all that time she had every man
in the ship into her every day, and from fair front-fucking had
eventually satisfied them in both apertures, and often had had one in
each orifice, and sucked a third to spending point, which she
deliciously swallowed; she had even taken the _premisses_ of the little
twelve-year-old cabin boy, and she declared that she never enjoyed so
complete a satisfaction of her excessive lascivious lust as in that
happy voyage of six weeks' duration.



The Count, who had split his sides with laughter as she recounted this
extraordinary indulgence in every enjoyment of lust, related in the
amusing patois of Piedmont, told us that notwithstanding such excessive
indulgence in both orifices, and by pricks, many of which were of
immense dimensions, not the slightest appearance of such ample
stretching could be detected on the closest examination, and that in
either orifice she could almost nip your prick off. One of those
exceptional constitutions and splendid forms that no excess injures,
and who are ready for any number of pricks and reducing them all to
inanition, while she remained as ready as ever to recommence the utmost
excess of lust as soon as any one set had exhausted themselves.

As a sequel to the Count's confessions, I shall here give my adored
wife's account of her early life in the form of a narrative, for when
it was told to me it was interrupted by various lustful encounters
produced by the lascivious and exciting nature of her revelations.

She was the daughter of a Greek mother, married to a high clergyman of
the Church of England, a man of great erudition, who had taken the
highest honours at Oxford. When Fellow of his college he was tutor to a
great nobleman's son, had travelled for years with him, and hence his
wide acquaintance with the languages of modern Europe. In Greece he had
fallen over head and ears in love with her mother, had tried to seduce
her, and, failing that, married her. He was a man of most lustful
propensities, her mother was of a beauty most attractive and exciting
to such a man, having lustrous and most lustful eyes, extraordinary
wealth of hair, which when undone reached to her heels; thick and
meeting eyebrows, and a well-defined moustache, all enough to drive a
sensualist like her father mad. So failing all other means to have her,
he married her, and, as far as she could afterwards learn from him, was
in all voluptuously lewd, carnal acquirements, every thing the wildest
imagination of lust could desire. It was from her mother she inherited
all that deliciously haired body, and from both parents her intensely
lascivious passions. She lost her mother just as she had attained her
eighth year. During her mother's life she had generally crept into
their bed in the mornings to have a cuddle, and had often been a
witness to the fucking of her mother by her father, and had, at other
times, played with his prick until it stood, and even made him spend
with her toyings. She owned to a sense of sensual gratification in
this, but at that early age without any idea of the possibility of its
being put into her. She always accompanied papa to his bath, and he
invariably dried her and finished by kissing her mount and her cunt,
and without tongueing it.

After her mother's death he always had her to sleep the whole night
with him, and when in her ninth year he had commenced by gamahuching
her clitoris, which even at that early age he declared gave promise of
exceeding in projection the fine one with which her mother had been
provided.

In this manner he soon awakened all the latent lubricity of her nature.
Afraid to force an entrance at that early age, after exciting both her
and himself, he used to rub his great prick between the lips of her
cunt, and against her clitoris, until worked up to spending point, when
he transferred his prick to her mouth, and spent therein, he having
taught her to practise that voluptuous and delicious method.

It was naturally impossible to stop short _dans un tel beau chemin_,
and it ended by his first getting the knob of his prick into her small
tight slit and spending there, gradually forcing his way further and
further in, until she, driven mad by such excitement, felt the utmost
desire to have it into the deepest recess of her longing cunt, and
begged him to shove it in harder and further.

With such a spur to his passions, unable to control himself, he burst
through all obstacles, and completely deflowered her, giving her
greater agony than she expected, which was subsequently completely
alleviated and converted into the most exquisite sensations. Once he
had fairly fucked her, he continued to do so constantly until the age
of puberty, which declared itself by the coming-on of her monthly
courses even before she was twelve years of age. Already an extensive
moss-bed of sable silky short curls adorned her mount and body.

At this period her father told her he must take precautions against
getting her with child; at first he drew out and spent in her mouth,
which she dearly loved, but becoming lewd on her bottom-hole, which he
constantly fingered, he declared it was too much derangement of
position to get it into her mouth, and suggested merely driving the
knob into the arse-hole, and spending therein, which he could do by her
merely heaving up her arsehole as high as her cunt had been, and so
entering without any change of position on his or her part. Of course
it soon came from the knob only to the utmost length of his prick in
her arse, and gradually she came so to like it that often the entire
encounter of three or four coups was delivered in her arsehole to her
infinite satisfaction; and thus her father enjoyed the first fruits of
every aperture in her body.

He it was that instructed her so deeply in classic literature as well
as modern languages, but always choosing such lewd works to carry out
her education, such as Meursius and Suetonius in Latin, Athenaeus with
his supper conversations in Greek, especially drawing her attention to
his chapter on boy love, Boccaccio and Casti in Italian, the
uncastrated editions, the adventures of Casanova, and the hundreds of
other French bawdy books, with the most exciting illustrations of all
these works and many others besides. The lecture on them always led to
good fucking in one aperture or the other, practising the particular
description that excited their lewdness.

He thus depraved her mind that she soon longed for other experiences
than all he could give, and she cast about for an _aide-du-con_. This
she first found in their young and handsome footman, who proved not
only discreet, but completely up to his work, and uncommonly well
furnished.

They occupied in every voluptuous excess the hours papa had to attend
to the extensive and rich parish of which he was the rector. I must
tell the rest in her own words; she said--

"Continued immunity in our excesses led to excessive in-cautiousness,
and caused the discovery of our intrigue by my father, who appeared
shocked and distressed at the discovery, but he was quickly reconciled,
as it ended in his having the youth himself, and his introduction into
our incestuous orgies, in which he both fucked and was fucked by my
father when not giving me the exquisite delight of having both
together. And for five or six years I had but these two charming
satisfiers of my lust.

"At this period a beautiful youth of fourteen, the son of a younger
brother of my father, and, consequently, my first cousin, came to live
with us. He was an orphan, left by his mother under the guardianship of
my father. I was some three years his senior and he took to me as an
elder sister, was very loving in that character only, and used to
embrace and kiss me most affectionately. I, for my own part, soon began
to have other feelings.

"On his first arrival, in grief at the loss of his only surviving
parent, he feared to go to bed alone, so I used to accompany him, and
help to undress him. He was all innocence, his mother, up to her recent
death, had done the same, so he had no _mauvaise honte_, and I helped
off his shirt and helped on his night-gown, and even witnessed his
diddling before he got into bed, which I tucked him in and kissed him
before leaving.

"Of course with my then complete knowledge and practice of every art of
lust, I could not but look for and discover all his secret charms, then
always in a state of repose, but promising a future development. I grew
lewd upon him one morning, after an orgy with papa and the footman, who
had not altogether satisfied me. I was tempted to go along to my cousin
Henry, to waken and cuddle him, knowing that he would probably awaken
with a cockstand, as usual with youths, and even men.

"I slipt along, and at once saw, as I expected, for only partially
covered with the sheet, the prominence of his prick was unmistakable. I
gently removed the sheet, and was delighted to see that his instrument,
insignificant enough when down, was of a very respectable volume when
erect, and quite capable of giving any woman perfect satisfaction from
its excessive hardness. I gently took it in my hand to feel it, it
throbbed at the touch, and felt like a piece of wood in hardness, with
a velvet covering.

"I got into his bed by his side without awakening him, taking care to
pull up my chemise so as to let him feel the contact of my bare skin. I
pulled the sheet over us, took him in my arms, and woke him with a kiss.

"He was surprised and delighted at finding me by his side, but as yet
had no idea but that of cuddling and caressing me. In throwing my arms
around him I had taken care to pull his night-gown up to his loins, so
that his naked body pressed against mine as we embraced.

"In apparent surprise I cried out what is that pressing so hard against
my body; at the same time moving my hand and laying hold of it. It
throbbed violently to the touch. I threw the sheet off to see what it
could be.

"'Dear me,' said I, 'how is this? What a change! it was not like that
when I put you to bed last night. How has it become in this strange
state?'

"'It is so, dear cousin, when I want to pee in the morning, and goes
down afterwards.'

"'Then jump up and pee, and I want to do the same.'

"He took the pot and piddled. I took another and piddled, standing with
legs wide apart, and holding the chamber pot partly between and partly
under my thighs, so that he could perfectly see the whole of my cunt,
and the flow of water from it.

"He stared with astonishment; it was really the first time he had any
knowledge that women were differently formed down there than he was.

"'How funny,' cried he, 'you piddle from a chink, and have no doodle. I
should like to see it nearer.'

"I told him I should lie down on my back on the bed, and he could look
as much as he pleased, but he must never tell any body what he would
see, because it was a great secret.

"He promised, of course. I lay down on my back, having first thrown off
my chemise, stretched wide my legs, told him he would see better if he
knelt between my legs, some slight distance from the object to be seen.

"He got up and began a close examination, admiring the immense quantity
of hair I had already got, opened the lips, caressed what he called the
little doodle, my clitoris, which was rampant with lewdness. I told him
to feel inside with his middle finger; he pushed it up--I nipped it, to
his astonishment, so that he could hardly withdraw it. Nature, unknown
to him, acted her part; his cock, which had gone down after piddling,
stood stiffer than ever. I laid hold of it, and said--

"'How comes this, Henry? You can't want to piddle again.'

"'No, no, but I feel queer all over, I don't know why, and it seems to
have raised my doodle as you see.'

"'If you will keep it secret I will show how it comes about.'

"He promised that he would never, never, tell any thing I should teach
him. So I said--

"'Come to my arms, lie down on my belly, and I will teach you. There
that is it.'

"His cock beat fiercely against my cunt. I passed my hand down, guided
it into my longing cunt, then placing my hands on his buttocks pressed
down and forced his charming shaft up to the hairs of my longing cunt,
foaming with my father's and the footman's sperm, so that he slipped in
with the greatest ease; but no sooner was he hilted than one of my
exquisite cunt-pressures made him cry out with unexpected pleasure,
while I spent with the delicious conviction that I was enjoying the
first fruits of a beautiful youth. I told him how to move in and out,
nature did the rest the moment he knew what to do. A very few thrusts
brought down his first tribute on the altar in the exquisite recess of
Venus, the voluptuous goddess of love. I joined in the delicious
discharge.

"Once experiencing the joys of coition the dear boy fucked me five
times before I could get him to withdraw, and it was only the fear of
discovery that induced him at last to get off me. We had a delicious
cuddle, and I promised to come every morning I could do so with safety.
Impressing upon him the absolute necessity of secrecy and caution, if
he wished to have any repetition of the delightful lesson I had given
him, I returned to my room gratified beyond measure in having taken a
maiden tribute. Women who have the luck of such good fortune alone know
the exquisite delight of initiating a virgin prick into love's
mysteries and our longing cunts.

"We carried on this delicious intercourse for months before it was
discovered, but use begets want of caution, and my father at last
discovered it. Poor Henry thought himself happily excused by allowing
my wanton parent to take possession of his bottom while fucking me. My
warm embraces enabling him to support the great and curious pain and
pleasure attending a first penetration of that delicious narrow
aperture, dedicated to the obscene god. It ended in his complete
initiation into our orgies with the footman. His addition to the orgy
enabling more complex and lustful combinations than two men and a woman
alone could indulge in.

"My father, who lived quite up to his income, died and left me with a
very small capital at his death, which happened after the coming of age
of my cousin Henry, to whom I had become violently attached. Indeed, it
was my first love, and had all the devotion and ardour of that passion.
He had a small independence, and we lived together for two years after
my father's death, secretly sleeping together.

"The interference of relatives who, without suspecting our real sensual
intercourse, preached upon what the world would say, &c., induced me to
undertake a governesship, for which the great instruction I had
received from my papa more than fully qualified me. I saw the
reasonableness of this, and also thought it was more likely to
strengthen Henry's love than otherwise. But the parting was a great
trial. He had grown a fine man, with a superb prick, although far
inferior to this monster," laying hold of mine at the moment standing
stiff and wanting but her touch to make me bend her back and fuck her
off hand, so exciting had been her recital.

She resumed after this episode, by saying her system of teaching was
eminently successful. From time to time she was comforted by interviews
with her loved Henry, besides satisfying the lust of both the father
and sons of the families she lived with, teaching and taking the
maidenheads of several youths, but in none receiving the gratification
her loved Henry had given her, until, as she flatteringly said, she had
the good fortune to enter our family and find such a jewel as I
possessed.

She had occasionally found girls of such a warm temperament that she
was induced to initiate them into the art of gamahuchery. It was in
this character of instructress that she had first used the rod to the
bottoms of her pupils, and it was seeing the erotic effect produced on
them as recipients that first gave her the letch of being herself
birched. After this she had had a vast variety of youths, fathers of
families, and old worn-out patients, whom she birched into action.

From one situation to another she had arrived at ours; since which time
I knew all her doings.

The Count's son and my daughter meanwhile grew up to puberty. We
watched their progress with great interest. They were both initiated in
all love's delicious mysteries by their respective parents.

My lovely little Florentia, for we christened her in my adored wife's
name Italianized, which became familiarly Entee, was a great comfort to
us. From childhood she always came to cuddle us in bed before we rose.
She was so beautifully made that we used to strip her naked and kiss
her whole body, which always gained my dear wife an extra fuck,
especially after she reached her tenth year, when her form was rapidly
developing into puberty. Being from infancy familiar and accustomed to
be always stript by us, she had no shyness; indeed she became so
exciting that often I grew rampant and fucked my dear wife while she
was present. She grew to like to see us do it, and used to play with my
big cock, and bring him up to the scratch. It ended as it was sure to
end, in my gradually toying with her from one excitement to another,
until she was completely fucked in her thirteenth year.

Ten years after that epoch I lost my beloved wife, and would have been
quite inconsolable but for the sympathizing endearments of this darling
child, who became so necessary to my existence that twelve months after
my adored wife's decease I married her. She was a perfect Italian
beauty, and no one supposed she was other than an orphan adopted by my
late wife.

Now, in my old age, she is the comfort of my life and the mother of my
beautiful son, whom we have named Charley Nixon, in memory of both my
first adored wife and my guardian, through whom he will inherit great
wealth. The dear little fellow is now eighteen years of age, handsome,
well grown, and very well furnished, although not so monstrous in that
way as his father. His dear mother has initiated him in every delight,
and he has all the fire of lust that his old father had before him. He
often comes to us at night, indeed, it is the only thing that enables
me from time to time to get a cockstand and a fuck at his mother. To
see them in all the agonies of lust, fucking furiously before my
delighted eyes, so excites me now and then, for, alas, it has come to
be a gratification few and far between. But occasionally to suck up his
young sperm after the excitement of their love combat produces a
stiffness for my beautiful wife to mount upon me and then have our
charming son to put his prick into her bottom for this, too, is
necessary to my failing vigour, and the contact of his vigorous young
prick against the thin filmy substance separating us feels as nothing.
I am long in spending, and his delighted mother gets two and sometime
three delicious discharges in her arse before my lazy prick deluges her
cunt with my incestuous sperm.

We are thus a happy family, bound by the strong ties of double
incestuous lust. It is necessary to have these loved objects to fall
back upon, for alas! all the earlier partakers of my prick are now dead
and gone. Aunt and uncle, the Dales, the Nichols, my beloved Benson,
and her friends the Egertons.

I have already mentioned the Count's death, and both my sisters have
left me alone, and I should have been a dreary and solitary old man but
for my beloved wife and son, who solace me and replace the void in my
heart I should otherwise have so sadly felt.



I shall here end this long tale of my erotic life.

A curious event has happened lately, the divorce of a Mr. Cavendish
from his wife for adultery with the young Count de la Rouchefoucalt.
The details brought before the court were of the most scandalous
nature, especially the letters exchanged between them when the Count
had to go to Rome, where he was attaché to the French Embassy. When the
husband's counsel handed up the letters with the sworn notary's
translation, he remarked that he thought they were too horribly
scandalous to be read in court. The judge scanned a few of them, and,
addressing the counsel said--

"I am perfectly of your opinion, my learned brother, I shall take them
home and make a point of them in my address to the jury."

It will be seen that they were of such a nature that doubtless the old
judge, who was no other than my dear old chum Harry Dale, gave his wife
two or three extra fucks on the strength of the lust produced by those
exciting and extraordinary lascivious letters from a young man of only
twenty-one years of age, showing quite as early an initiation into all
the luxury of the utmost depravity as any of my own details of my early
experiences with my darling old aunt.

Some of the letters are a string of imaginary events as to how far they
could carry their imaginations. The Count constantly alludes to the
inferiority of his descriptions to those given in her replies. Alas! as
he possesses those exciting replies of the lady, they cannot be got at,
but from his descriptions, and the remarks on certain gross
familiarities, it's evident she was gifted with as lascivious and
lustful a temperament as either my aunt or the divine Frankland.

A chance threw these interesting letters into my possession, and I can
assure the reader they are the veritable sworn translations of the
letters found in Mrs. Cavendish's davenport when it was broken open by
her husband, and produced on the trial. The Count had evidently dreaded
such an event, and it will be seen he constantly implores her to
destroy his letters as soon as read. But, with the infatuation of her
sex, she kept them to furnish the sole evidence by which she lost her
place in society and became a lost woman. It is added that she was a
woman of forty-five, and the mother of several children, but it is
these randy voluptuous matrons who have the most attractions to a young
man who feels flattered and is proud of, as he thinks, conquering a
woman in a good position in society. It is evident enough that she was
no tyro in every depravity of lust, and probably had passed through
many hands before he gained her. He appears to have been really
cunt-struck, which, as I have before observed, is one of the strongest
infatuations that a man can have.



END OF VOLUME IV.



ADDENDA



LETTERS

PRODUCED IN THE DIVORCE-CASE

CAVENDISH

_v_.

CAVENDISH AND ROCHEFOUCAULT.



Rome, _Saturday_

_August 6th, 1859, 10 o'clock_.

I tried last night, my angel, to write you a half sheet, but it was as
much as I could do to read your letter a second time, and it was only
by making a great effort that I was able to write a few lines. However,
this morning I will try and continue, in order to reward you, not for
that one which you have deprived me of from pique, but for those
bewitching ones which I have lately received.

I have just received your letter 17, begun August 3rd, 11 o'clock at
night, and bless you for the idea of addressing it to Pal. B., it is
infinitely preferable, and there is no fear of any risk ("indiscretion"
in original) either now or later.

I am delighted when I think of the pleasure you derived from what I
sent you the other day. I only decided upon it in fear and trembling. I
do not understand what you mean by letter direct to Albert. If you do
not send it per Embassy bag I should not have it here till Monday; you
would have done much better to have put it in the parcel. All last
night I slept very badly, no doubt in consequence of a presentiment I
had that I should not receive a half sheet, and that you were annoyed
at my going to Albano, and I thought of a mass of things as
disagreeable as they are painful. Of your birthday, for instance, the
1st of October, which will be an opportunity for II * [* II stands for
her husband] to make you a present in return for the set of studs which
you gave him on his birthday, when you, no doubt, will give him
something.

As to your brown cloak which II gave you, &c. &c., I request that on
your birthday when he makes you his usual present, whatever it may be,
you accept it and say, "I thank you," and, without even looking at it,
put it upon the table, immediately speak of something else, and when he
has left the room, put it away out of sight without ever speaking of it
again, or appearing to know what has become of it.

I have just been interrupted for an hour and a half by M. de
Fiennes--very agreeable is it not? You must forgive me if I am unable
to write to you at length; what I have said to you above is for the
future, but the past is over since he has those studs. I forbid you to
give him something in future, unless you cannot possibly do otherwise;
and, in that case, you must give cigarettes or anything which does not
last. I will see what is to be done about your shawl, was it not II who
gave it to you? Thanks, my treasure, to walk so far from II; it is so
good of you to give up to me that walk, which I hate when you take it
with him.

Ah! new projects again, but let us hope these will be the last, how I
pity you. You were so well you told me two days ago, and now you are
already obligated to take some powders--it is II system. Nice health
you seem to have; you have good reason for believing that the regimen
you have hitherto followed is a good one, it succeeds so well! Poor
darling I can comprehend how uncomfortable these frequent agitations
must make you. I suffer from them so often myself.

I will make you some drawings later. I have not the time to-day. Those
uncertainties of your mother are terrible. Oh, yes, I am in despair at
that departure, particularly before my lot is decided, and knowing, as
I do, that you are unhappy. But, my child, do not fear to let it be
known in every direction that you cannot endure II, and that you have
taken a disgust to him. Do not hesitate to give the true reasons when
you refuse to do anything, simply, "Yes, or No, the hand, but with
........... it is not necessary. I can dispense with it, nothing of
that sort is necessary." And then, when that has produced the desired
effect, add, "We can only live under the same roof upon those
conditions, for sooner would I go away altogether than that it should
be otherwise." Speak in this manner; it won't answer very well at first
perhaps; but he will soon get accustomed to it, "How do you do?" in the
morning, and "Good night," at night. Then gradually get into the way of
saying "Mr. C." when talking of, or speaking to him. You may be told it
is not the custom. Answer you don't care, it is not the custom to be
such an idiot as he is. Ah, you are too sad, poor child, all that is
charming, and all our superstitions. Moreover, one must think of what
has been, not of what will be, and compare it with what is. The
progress is very delightful and consoling.

Do not be unhappy about my horse, he did not go very well, and then I
do not care about driving in a carriage when you are on foot.

I have made two drawings, one prettier than the other, and I have had a
copious emission.

Mrs. S. has made no tentative overtures towards me. She is often that
way inclined, and with everybody. Be calm then; but, after all, you are
perfectly so, only you pretend to be otherwise. God bless you for
speaking so often of your pretty rose-coloured silk stockings. I like
them so much, and adore you for wearing _them_, although it is not the
custom, above all in the day time. Doubtless it is very coquettish,
pretty, and wondrously exciting. Even only to think of them gives me an
erection. And that rice powder! how divine you must look. It is to be
hoped that the powder in your hair will not give ideas to II and
embolden him--take care. Thanks for thinking so often of me, my
idolized angel. Adieu, my good, my best treasure, I love and embrace
you tenderly. I will have my revenge, for I, too, had prepared a half
sheet, but will not send it till to-morrow.



Rome, _Saturday, for Sunday's Post_

_August 6th, 1859, 2 o'clock_.

I wish to give you a little surprise, my own dear little darling, in
sending you this letter, which you will receive with a half sheet upon
which you had not reckoned on Tuesday morning, so as to supply the
place of Sunday's post. It was to give you this little surprise, and in
no way of retaliation, that I did not send a half sheet in my letter of
this morning. It was very unkind of you not to send yours upon the
pretext that I was at Albano, but you will have been ashamed of it
since. Besides, even supposing that I had been there, I should not have
committed any indiscretion with your envelopes, which are so excellent,
and, if one had felt inclined to do so, your letter was sufficient to
make me indifferent to it. I suspect you of not having prepared what is
necessary, I shall be sure to see if it be so; to-morrow's letter ought
to contain two. I continue your letter 17, and I perceive with rapture
that you have had a thick cream-like emission of enjoyment. How
delicious it would be in my tea. How I should like to send you some
like it also. It is a good thing that my letter to the little girl was
successful. Will you tell Madame de Delmar that I am sorry to hear that
she is suffering, particularly as her ordinarily detestable disposition
only becomes more thick and more execrable. Suppress this latter part
if you think it better.

Ah! you think that Madame Salvi has played her cards well and in what
way, I ask? You are too bad, too implacable. I do not like that in you.
I have told you that your suspicions wounded me, and I think you can
believe me when I tell you that I have completely changed my conduct in
that respect. Besides, what can I possibly do. I am very uncomfortable
here. The Abdol don't want me; besides, the Duke has given me to
understand that I ought occasionally to go and see his wife, and the
Borgh bother me with all their children.

Thanks, my good angel, for the letter Des Pierre. If it be decided that
you leave, I shall go for a few days to Civita--sad and mournful
consolation. Why do you tell me that you will go barefooted when I go
to see you. I am quite of your opinion that your feet are only too
delicious. The costume rather disgusted me than otherwise, without,
however, producing any effect upon me. To-morrow I shall pay the
Duchess de Grano a visit, and since it seems to put you out, shall not
return again to Albano.

Heaven knows that the pleasure is not great, and that I care very
little for it. The other day I did not even find it any cooler there.
The Duchess of St. Alban's leaves on the 20th for Schwalback and
England on account of the apprehensions about war--another subject of
uneasiness for me--such is life. I can go and live with the Duchess de
Grano and Salvi. No one would say anything about the one, and not much
about the other, whatever you yourself might say, but that annoys me
exceedingly, and disgusts me, and I dare not do so with you. You might,
however, have been my ambassadress, see what it is to be so seductive,
so graceful, so pretty, so kind and gentle. Just fancy, dearest, that I
have not answered Madame Rudiger. I must really do so to-day. She is a
person one must be careful with.

I have always this phrase before my eyes. "I prepared a divine half
sheet yesterday evening, but dare not send it!" Very agreeable, and
very kind of you! well, I do not complain.

They have been so heavenly during the last three days, and mine are so
shameful. How nice it is for me to think that I should have sufficient
influence over you to get you to sit perfectly naked at my table. Long
ago might you have had that influence over me, and even have enforced
requirements more depraved, and more degrading than that if you had
wished it, and with what rapture! Adieu, my angel, what a happiness to
give you this trifling pleasure.



When I shall have undressed my adorable little mistress it will be nine
o'clock, she will be mad with desire, delirious from passion and
rapturous exactions (exigencies), her maddening look exciting me in the
highest degree will arouse all the strength I possess, and enable me to
exhaust her so completely that she herself will attain the height of
happiness; the greater the refinement and delicacy of my caresses the
greater will be your happiness, the more languishing will your eyes
become, the more will your pretty mouth unclose itself, the more will
your tongue become agitated, the more will your bosoms, firm and soft
as velvet, become distended, and their nipples grow large, red, and
appetizing; then will your arms grow weaker and then will your angelic
legs open themselves in a voluptuous manner, and then seeing ourselves
reflected on all sides in the mirrors, shall I take you in my arms in
order to excite you (_branler_, frig) with my hand, whilst your little
rosy fingers will similarly excite me with vigour, and I shall suck
your divine nipples with passion. When the agitation of your little
legs, of your lovely little bottom (_derrière_), of your head, and
those murmurs of pleasure (_rugissements_) prove to me that you are at
the point of emission, I shall stop and carry you to a piece of
furniture made to sustain your head, your back, your bottom, and your
legs, and having near your cunt (_con_) an opening sufficiently wide to
allow my body to pass erect between your legs; then shall I fuck
(_enfiler_) you with frenzy with my enormous and long member, which
will penetrate to the mouth of your womb; being squeezed by your pretty
legs, which will bring me closer to you, I shall wriggle (_remuerai_)
my strong pretty member, which you love, with more vigour than ever; my
private parts (_organes mâles_, testicles) will touch your little
bottom, and this contact will provoke such an abundant flow of the
essence of love in your little cunt that I shall be as if I were in a
bath.

How I fear to leave off there! But we shall see. Do not write to me by
the night post, it is useless! It is true that when I am near you in a
carriage I have difficulty in remaining quiet. Oh, no, do not alarm me
by your insatiability, mine is much greater than yours, there is not
the slightest comparison to be drawn between us in a physical point of
view, but as far as our moral nature and heart is concerned we can
rival each other, and I am very happy on that account.

1:40. I was most annoyingly interrupted by the luncheon bell, and
afterwards I played a game of Fourreau (a game all the fashion at
Verteuil), and here I am again. I have just refused to accompany my
father and mother in a drive in the neighbourhood, so that I shall be
able to write to you more at length, unless, indeed, I write to
Fallenay.



You tell me that you like the little costume, but that is all you say,
and you give me no details as to the colours, the length and shape. I
will believe my treasure, my jewel, that your bosoms will be white,
swollen and soft as velvet, and it is very nice of you to tell me that
my hands will have difficulty in holding them and putting their ruby
lips to my mouth.

You are quite right in saying that you will develop my virility, it is
you who have made my member what it is now. I repeat, on my word of
honour, perhaps you will not like to hear these details, but,
nevertheless, I shall say it, you are the first woman in the world who
has stimulated that essence which flows from my prick (_queue_), which
your kisses have rendered so pretty, and it is you who have plucked the
flower of my virginity. Never have I had (_baisé_) any other woman, and
whatever may be the misfortunes to which I may be destined, it will
always be an immense and ineffable happiness to me to think that I have
given and lost it through the luscious draughts you offer (_par tes
délices_). It is, and it will be, perhaps, the greatest blessing, and
the only consolation of my life. But before God it is a great one, and
my enjoyment has not been such as one can expect to find in this world.
I do not believe that he who had the madness to rob you of yours was as
pure as myself, and as for voluptuous pleasures, if there be any
greater than that which I know, I promise you never to learn or seek
it, although I don't require this at your hands. I do not wish to have
any other woman spoken of, they all disgust me, even to look at them.
You know it, and you know that there is nothing, absolutely nothing, in
you to disgust me, but all that belongs to you maddens me, and I love
and adore all; it has become a madness, and you know it; for when you
are kind you give at least the idea by letter of that which you would
not do if you had the slightest doubt.

You know that I have sucked you between the legs at those delicious
moments when you made water, or when you had your monthly courses, and
that my happiness will be complete when you will allow me, and when
circumstances will allow you, to let me lick (_passer la langue_) at
that ineffable moment when your little love of a jewel of a bottom has
just relieved itself. In you every thing appears different and pure,
the purity which reigns in your every feature, the excess of refinement
which exists in your whole body, your hands, your feet, your legs, your
cunt, your bottom, the hairs of your private parts, all is appetizing,
and I know that the same purity exists in all my own desires for you.
As much as the odour of women is repugnant to me in general, the more
do I like it in you. I beg of you to preserve that intoxicating
perfume... but you are too clean, you wash yourself too much. I have
often told you so in vain. When you will be quite my own, I shall
forbid you to do so too often, at most once a day. My tongue and my
saliva shall do the rest.

If it is necessary let the doctor cauterize you (_toucher_), that is to
say with his instrument, and mind he does not fall in love with you; I
bet he has never before seen anything so seducing, so pretty, or so
perfect. It is to be hoped that the irritation does not proceed from
the size of my member.

You did quite right to go to the play, and I regret sincerely to have
spoilt the pleasure you had in going, it shall not happen again.

As to the place George had, that is perfectly indifferent to me.

Ah! you think that the portrait was done afterwards. You are not sure
of it, but it is a matter of no moment, my much loved one. I shall not
be the less happy to have the photograph if you are good enough to give
it to me, not too much in miniature. I shall be very grateful for it.

If I said that Galitzin was clever, I was wrong; he has a kind heart,
and is very fond of me. Now that he has lost his mother, I shall be
more kind to him. He is a person one can depend upon; his letters are
silly productions. Those Russians have always the imagination easily
excited.

Yes, my father has always the same answer. Thanks for your obliging
offer of gloves, my mother must settle about it.



I shall still have lavished the following caresses upon you, angel of
my delight, were I a little calmer. I had a dream, such as it was,
about it last night, and only remember it just now by way of
explanation of my mad excitement of this morning. I saw you as I was
asleep, you were by my side frigging me with your fingers of love, and
you heard me say to you, "I see you there." You are as lovely as Venus,
your lusciousness and lasciviousness are at their very height, your
body is completely perfumed with your urine, in which I forced you to
bath yourself for my enjoyment, so that I might lick you. You have
painted the most seductive parts of your person. Your shoulders are
white, your rosy bosoms reveal themselves through a rose-coloured
gauze, trimmed with bows of the same hue. Your thighs, as well as your
navel and your heavenly bottom, are revealed through a heavenly gauze,
your legs are clad in rose-coloured stockings. The sperm flows; but how
much I needed it! This is true, for my testicles were swollen in an
alarming manner.



Oh, my child, my pretty little mistress, if you only knew how much I
suffer from the excessive heat, and the privation in which I live!
Without exaggeration, my testicles are enormous. My member is as large,
straight, and stiff as my arm. I am mad from desire for you. I had the
unhappy idea of going to bed again. My mind was full of a dream I had
had, and of which you were, of course, the subject. Then I thought of
the caresses which you would have been obliged to submit to, and at
last, in consequence of your yesterday's half sheet, so pretty at the
beginning and at the end, but yet quite beside the question, and found
myself engaged in the act of rubbing myself with frenzy, and of
stroking myself and of frigging my prick (_la pine_) until I was
exhausted, before I could discharge the merest drop; that was too much
for me, and now I desire you like a mad man. If a delicious half sheet
does not arrive by the Embassy bag, I know not what will become of me.
I have had an emission. I am saved. I shall feel myself so relieved.
You have forbidden my going with other women. You are determined that I
shall not have a discharge with any one but yourself, and that I have
fucked (_baisé_) no one but you. Oh! how I must love you.



It is two o'clock in the morning, I have violated and well worked you,
kissed, frigged, licked, and sucked you obliged you to yield to my
desires, the most debauched, the most shamelessly degrading during the
whole of the afternoon. All the afternoon, too, I have got you to suck
my member and my testicles. I have made you pass your tongue between my
toes and under my arms. I have compelled you to paint your body, to
drink my urine. I was almost on the point of getting you sucked and
licked by a pretty Lorette, perfectly naked, between your legs, and to
make you piss into her cunt in order to make the depravation more
debased than ever. I have had discharges from jealously. I have
discharged at least forty times; and when, after having left you to go
to my club, I returned home, and finding you fast asleep from
exhaustion, I awakened you and insisted upon your frigging me with your
rosy fingers, all the while licking my several parts. You implore me.
You are wearied, but I am intractable. You must do it in order to
excite you as much as I am myself excited. I suck your breast with
frenzy. The sucking that I have given your bosoms, and the fear you
have lest I should fetch a young girl to violate you with her breasts
in your cunt, filling your womb with her milk, excite your senses, and
then you hear a voice whose sound alone so pleasingly tickles your
womb, saying to you, "My pretty mistress, I implore you to abandon your
(?) to me. I will love you so fondly. I will be too kind and gentle, I
am so handsome, I will do all you can possibly wish. I know so well how
to have and suck a woman, my member is enormous, it is beautiful,
rose-coloured, large, long, hard and vigorous. Yield yourself to me."

Tell me if you like this one.



When you are ready you will call me so that I may come and say my daily
"How do you do?" You will begin by taking my----out of my trousers,
then half opening your gown, you will lift up your pretty chemise with
one hand, and will pass your other arm, soft as satin, round my neck. I
shall embrace you tenderly, then I shall lick your snow-white
shoulders, your bosoms, which seem to be bursting from the imprisonment
of your rose-coloured stays embroidered with lace. I shall lick between
your legs, over your divine little bottom, your nymph-like thighs being
at that moment on my knees; then you will place your angelic little
feet, with your stockings on, one after the other in my mouth. After
this you will send me into the dining-room, in order to get rid of the
servants, and, by this time, filled with an amorous and impassioned
languor, each of your movements breathing forth the frenzy and
voluptuousness of passion, you will come and join me. There will be
only one chair, and the table will be laid for only one person. We
shall each of us have only one hand free, I the right, and you the
left; then you will sit upon my left leg, which you have found the
means to make naked; you will have unfastened your gown in such a way
that it will hang down behind, and your right hand will caress and
stroke my enormous prick, which you will have taken between your legs
without putting it into your angelic cunt, whilst my left arm will wind
itself round your lovely waist in order to bring you still nearer to me.

After breakfast, which will have lasted till half-past twelve, and
which will have given you strength, we will go into the little
rose-coloured boudoir. I shall place myself in a low narrow chair, and
as I shall be very much excited by your enchanting looks, my enormous
member will come out of its own accord from its prison, and you will
sit astraddle upon me, introducing, with the greatest difficulty, my
pretty and vigorous prick into your pretty girl-like cunt, when
wriggling about from sheer enjoyment you will stop its movements every
time I tell you I am on the point of discharging, so as to increase my
desires and my transports of happiness. Then in half an hour's time you
will get up and place yourself upon the sofa, whilst I, at your desire,
shall dip off all my clothes; then you will get up from the sofa and
take off your dressing-gown only keeping on what you have underneath.
In my turn I will stretch myself on the sofa, getting every moment more
delirious with passion, for your dress, betraying the delicious
outlines of your figure, without revealing them entirely, will render
me almost beside myself, and will make my prick so long and so stiff
that you will hardly be able to sit on its point without being fucked,
in spite of its size, which will force from you sighs and murmurs of
rapture. At last, when once seated, fucked by my manly and powerful
prick, you will throw yourself backwards. I should lean my enraptured
legs against your bosoms, in order that you might lick my feet, while
you would pass your amorous and divine legs, softer, whiter, and more
rose-tinted every day, over the whole breadth of my chest, placing your
tiny goddess-like feet in my mouth. As our desires would augment at
every moment, you would allow me, would even ask me to take off your
garters, your pretty stockings, and your slippers, in order to procure
me the luxury of licking every part of your body there, and of
realising in the most perfect manner the intense enjoyment arising from
the contact of the most delicate, the most woman-like, the most
voluptuous member of your body. My hands would frig your little love of
a member, my manly prick would kiss your celestial womb, and my thighs
would caress your delicious bottom. When I have worked you in this way
for hours, ceasing every moment you were on the point of emission, I
should, as I withdrew my member, let you at last discharge, and then an
immense stream of love would flow into my mouth, which suddenly and as
if by enchantment would find itself in the place of my member while
your bosoms would be covered with that white essence of which you are
the only source in my eyes (I had never known it before Homburg), and
which would escape from my amorous member.

Every day after dinner, reclining voluptuously on a couch, you would
snatch a few moments of repose while I was taking off all my clothes.
When I had finished, and when I, filled with love, had shown myself to
your contemplation, you would give up to me your place upon the sofa,
and assuming the most seductive, the most coquettish, and the most
graceful attitudes, would come and play with my member, whose vigour
would arise solely from the sight of your pretty costume, which, I am
convinced, would render you more delicious than the most graceful
fairy. You would love me so deeply that I should cease to have any
power of will, you would have exhausted me, sucking me completely dry,
nothing would remain in my prick, which would be more full of desire,
more enormous, and stiffer at every moment. My languishing eyes, gentle
as love itself, surrounded by large dark blue circles caused by your
look, your tongue, your bosom, your cunt, your member, your heavenly
little bottom, your legs, your fingers, and your angelic little feet
would tell you how complete was my happiness, my intoxication, my
ecstasy, and my faint, exhausted but happy voice would give you the
same assurance, would murmur with rapture in your ears--"Oh how I love
you, my lady love, my divine little virgin, caress me yet once more,
again, still again, it is a dream. Thank you, oh, thank you and yet
again. Oh I am in heaven, do not pause, I implore you, suck me harder
than ever; lick me well; oh! what rapture; ask me what you will, it
shall be yours. You are my mistress, no other but you in the whole
world can transport me in this way. Frig me with your knees. Oh! oh!
oh! I am going to discharge," and my half-opened mouth would prove to
you my enjoyment, and the thirst I had for the bliss you could confer.

Then, more full of passion than ever woman lover had ever been, and
enraptured as you listened to my voice, so completely beneath your
sway, listening only to your own love, you would raise your little
coquettish petticoat, and pressing dear little loves of calves more
closely together, for you could be on your knees, resting upon my
little blue veins, you would frig me in this manner, with greater
vigour than ever sitting down every now and then upon your fine little
heels, in order the better to release my beautiful prick, perfectly
straight and rudely swollen and inflamed with passionate desires, from
between your divine thighs, as soft as satin, and as white as snow, to
better introduce the wet tips of your lovely and velvet like bosoms
into the seductive little hole of my member, whilst my knees raised
slightly behind would gently caress your bottom, so as to give you some
little satisfaction in your turn; and at last, unable any longer to
retard the moment of emission, you would bend forward, resting upon
both your hands, to increase my desire, and keeping yourself back a
little distance from me, while your petticoats would now cover my head,
and act almost like an electrical conductor upon me, you would
intoxicate me with the perfume exhaled from your legs, from your
member, from your cunt, from your bottom, and lastly, you would slack
my thirst and complete the celestial transport by pissing, with eager
rapture, between my burning lips some of that woman's nectar which you
would alone possess, and which, emanating from you alone in the world,
is worthy of the gods. It would be half-past eight.

You cannot form any idea of my excitement at this moment. I hope you
will like this, and will answer me prettily. Am I sufficiently in love?
And do you believe there will be another woman in the whole world
beside yourself for whom I shall have any desire? Oh, how wild is the
longing that I have for you at this moment; and this nectar I have
spoken of, from whom else could I care for it, could I endure it even,
whilst from you what mad delight! Tell me, do you believe this? You
know it perfectly well, I am sure; these are not mere words. Tell me
that you will piss into my mouth again when I ask you. I am now going
to try to sleep, but what chance of doing so with this love that
consumes me. I must await your pretty letter of to-morrow morning, for
it is that alone which will excite the flow and stream.



At half-past eight you would like to conform to the usages of this room
of mirrors, and as your desires have become greatly inflamed by my own
state, and by the soft and sensual temperament of our bodies, you would
ask me to undress you, in order that, being completely naked, I might
the more easily overwhelm you with my most passionate caresses. I
should then strip you of every thing, except that in order that your
feet might not come into immediate contact with the looking glasses
upon which we should be walking, I would slip on your feet a pair of
tiny little slippers, with little silk soles, at a distance they would
hardly be visible.

Some one is coming. Adieu till to-morrow.

And larger and stouter than that of my little darling, and so
indifferently shod with shoes. (Their boots are pretty.)

Adieu, my angel, I finish this so as to be enabled to add a few lines
to the picture--it is late. I love you with all my soul, with love,
respect, and adoration. Nothing yet has been heard about de L. R. It is
very bad weather, and my father is still no better.



I would take you for a drive either in a pretty barouche or in a
phaeton, your toilette would be beautiful but simple. I would only
insist upon your wearing a veil, for my love and happiness would render
me somewhat egoistical with regard to others. We should not be serious
all the time of our drive, for at every instant I should steal a kiss,
and your feet would be resting on mine.

We should return home about half-past five to dress for dinner. You
would change every thing, and without paying any attention to what our
servants might think, I should put on a loose pair of trousers,
prettier than what I had worn this morning but, like them, opening in
the front. As for you, my own love, I should insist upon your dressing
yourself as a ravishingly pretty little _danseuse_, with some little
difference, however, in my favour. Your hair would be in curls, falling
all round your head, upon your beautiful naked shoulders. You would
crown them with a pretty garland of flowers, such as I like for Aimée.
You should wear a light-coloured muslin dress, very low and very short,
up to the knees, your arms bare, and the skirts exceedingly full (the
body of which would be transparent, and refine and reveal the divine
shape of your angelic bosoms), your legs, perfectly naked, would be
visible amongst a mass of folds of muslin, and would be covered by
little open-work stockings of rose-coloured silk, fastened at the
instep by bows, like the dress, and on your tiny virgin feet you would
have little satin shoes, without soles. To pass into the dining room,
so as to avoid catching cold, and also prevent the servants revelling
in the sight of my treasure, you would envelope yourself from head to
foot in a long veil. During dinner I would try to remain tolerably
quiet so that you might eat and strengthen yourself for the evening,
which would be a fatiguing one. Our servants would have directions not
to enter until we rang; during each course you would open your veil,
and turning towards me (for you would be on my right hand), you would
place your pretty legs across mine; immediately my manly prick, which
your love would render daily more and more delicious, would display its
vivacity, and you would caress it with your lovely satin-like calves,
your chair enabling you to do this, being tolerably large, with only
one arm on the right, while mine would be much lower, that would not
fatigue you much, and this is what you would say to me, "Am I not
bewitching and delicious? Do you not think me voluptuous? and regard me
as your mistress, holding you under my entire subjection? I am very
happy to please you this way." And I should answer, "Yes, I am your
slave; you give me the greatest enjoyment that can be had; there is not
a woman in the world who possesses the attractions you have; you make
me do anything, you are the queen of voluptuousness, of enjoyment. No
one knows how to make love as you do." At last at the dessert you would
glide gently upon my lap, allowing your petticoats to flow behind. I
should suck your bosoms, for as the servants would be getting their own
dinners, I should have thrown your veil quite off, and you would then
appear enveloped in all your many charms. Then I should give you your
dessert, which would consist of a biscuit moistened with that white
essence which you alone in the whole world have known and know how to
produce in me, and for my reward you would allow me to make my wine for
dessert. I would then place my wine-glass between your legs, opened
voluptuously wide, and you would let that delicious urine flow into it.
The intoxication that this fragrant liquor would produce would be the
signal for my most passionate caresses.

You would begin by placing yourself astride me, and I should thrust
with the greatest difficulty my virile member between your legs. In
this position we should leave the dining-room, I carrying you along by
the stiffness of my member, while every step I took would make you wild
with excess of enjoyment. We should go into a pretty boudoir, the floor
of which would be completely covered with looking glasses, and filled
with furniture intended by their shape and softness to augment the
voluptuousness of our embraces. No costume whatever would be put on in
this room. Nudity alone would have a right to remain there. There would
be pieces of furniture to excite the senses and whereon to recline,
others enabling us to suck each of our members, to lick, to frig, to
kiss, to enjoy, to complete our performance, to discharge, to fuck, in
one word, to supplement and promote the extremest refinements of the
most celestial and most perfect of all enjoyments.



The continuation on some future occasion My fear of exciting you will
depend somewhat upon my letter of this evening or to-morrow, and
particularly upon the frank and sincere reply for which I ask you for
the day after to-morrow.

Send me back the beginning.

You cannot have the faintest idea of my dread when one of these sheets
is on its way.

Why do you trouble yourself to pay so much attention to style and
writing-that takes time. I never read mine over, and that is so much
time gained.



ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF THE LETTER WRITTEN BY THE COUNT ALMOST ENTIRELY
IN CYPHER



Here is the response of my heart, my beloved adored one.

Thou shall have it as soon as I shall dare to send it to you.

Thou shalt belong to me entirely one day, perhaps in eighteen months,
and then here is the existence which you shalt have the grief to be
compelled to lead.

In the apartment which I depicted to you the other day, and with the
toilette that I require of my beloved lady, my lady mistress is to
render herself every day between eleven o'clock and noon.

She will find there thy loving husband, all fresh and in every respect
desirable (_gentil_), clothed in a dressing-gown of very light texture.

From noon until three o'clock this is the programme.

At noon thou wilt stretch thyself on thy easy chair, thou wilt loosen a
little thy girdle and open thy pretty dressing-gown. I on my bent knees
at your side shall lick you with my tongue, while my arm shall encircle
thy divine waist and thy two naked arms shall encircle my neck;
afterwards softly widening thy virgin legs thou will cast aside all
that which hides from the eyes, and you will place me between those
divine legs.

Successively I shall lick with voluptuousness thy neck, thy shoulders,
under thy arms, thy breasts. I shall suck with force those chaste
little bosoms, which by their swelling would desire to escape from the
pretty little rose-coloured stays; then passing to thy intoxicating
cunt, I should suck it with such an amount of frenzy that thou wouldst
discharge for the first time in my mouth.

This done it will have so much excited me that, taking thy place, it
will become your turn to mount between my legs, and licking all my
chest thou wilt finish by frigging with passion my prick, which will
become longer and straighter than ever.

As soon as thou shalt feel the enjoyment coming thou wilt cease, in
order to lick the parts adjoining.

At one o'clock thou wilt want to make water, then my mouth adhering
between thy legs, thou wilt allow me to swallow all, then lying down
again on thy little belly, I shall lick with fury thy bottom so
voluptuous, and thy delicious legs.

Afterwards it will be thy turn to continue thy caresses upon me.

At two o'clock both of us elevated in a supreme degree, lifting up thy
little chemise in front we shall do the business, that is to say, that
surrounding me with vigour with thy legs, thou wilt make efforts in
order to fuck thyself (_enfiler_), but my member will be to such a
degree enormous that we shall have all the trouble in the world (the
delights corresponding to the efforts). At last, once entered thou wilt
procure, by my movements and my pauses, such enjoyments that I shall
hear you uttering the softest murmurs of thy voice, and so that thou
wilt wriggle thyself on my ravished prick which will still further
augment thy transports.

Thou wilt enjoy thyself thus three times. At the third time I shall
suck thy breasts with such passion that thy eyes depicting a heavenly
languor and a divine abandonment, thou wilt empty out upon me thy
delirium-causing seminal fluid.

That will last until half-past two o'clock, then we shall sleep
together thus until three o'clock, and at three o'clock thou wilt go to
dress thyself in order to go out or to receive visits.

Behold, the following part shall come to you if the commencement
pleases you.

Mem. The commission herein is returnable in Paris, 24th June, 1866.








THE WORKS OF EDGAR ALLAN POE

IN FIVE VOLUMES


The Raven Edition




VOLUME I


Contents:

     Edgar Allan Poe, An Appreciation
     Life of Poe, by James Russell Lowell
     Death of Poe, by N. P. Willis
     The Unparalleled Adventures of One Hans Pfaall
     The Gold-Bug
     Four Beasts in One
     The Murders in the Rue Morgue
     The Mystery of Marie Rogêt
     The Balloon-Hoax
     MS. Found in a Bottle
     The Oval Portrait




EDGAR ALLAN POE

AN APPRECIATION


   Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
   Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore--
   Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
         Of "never--never more!"

THIS stanza from "The Raven" was recommended by James Russell Lowell as
an inscription upon the Baltimore monument which marks the resting place
of Edgar Allan Poe, the most interesting and original figure in American
letters. And, to signify that peculiar musical quality of Poe's genius
which inthralls every reader, Mr. Lowell suggested this additional
verse, from the "Haunted Palace":

   And all with pearl and ruby glowing
    Was the fair palace door,
   Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing,
    And sparkling ever more,
   A troop of Echoes, whose sweet duty
    Was but to sing,
   In voices of surpassing beauty,
    The wit and wisdom of their king.


Born in poverty at Boston, January 19, 1809, dying under painful
circumstances at Baltimore, October 7, 1849, his whole literary career
of scarcely fifteen years a pitiful struggle for mere subsistence, his
memory malignantly misrepresented by his earliest biographer, Griswold,
how completely has truth at last routed falsehood and how magnificently
has Poe come into his own. For "The Raven," first published in 1845,
and, within a few months, read, recited and parodied wherever the
English language was spoken, the half-starved poet received $10! Less
than a year later his brother poet, N. P. Willis, issued this touching
appeal to the admirers of genius on behalf of the neglected author, his
dying wife and her devoted mother, then living under very straitened
circumstances in a little cottage at Fordham, N. Y.:

"Here is one of the finest scholars, one of the most original men of
genius, and one of the most industrious of the literary profession of
our country, whose temporary suspension of labor, from bodily illness,
drops him immediately to a level with the common objects of public
charity. There is no intermediate stopping-place, no respectful shelter,
where, with the delicacy due to genius and culture, he might secure
aid, till, with returning health, he would resume his labors, and his
unmortified sense of independence."

And this was the tribute paid by the American public to the master who
had given to it such tales of conjuring charm, of witchery and mystery
as "The Fall of the House of Usher" and "Ligeia"; such fascinating
hoaxes as "The Unparalleled Adventure of Hans Pfaall," "MSS. Found in a
Bottle," "A Descent Into a Maelstrom" and "The Balloon-Hoax"; such tales
of conscience as "William Wilson," "The Black Cat" and "The Tell-tale
Heart," wherein the retributions of remorse are portrayed with an awful
fidelity; such tales of natural beauty as "The Island of the Fay" and
"The Domain of Arnheim"; such marvellous studies in ratiocination as the
"Gold-bug," "The Murders in the Rue Morgue," "The Purloined Letter"
and "The Mystery of Marie Roget," the latter, a recital of fact,
demonstrating the author's wonderful capability of correctly analyzing
the mysteries of the human mind; such tales of illusion and banter
as "The Premature Burial" and "The System of Dr. Tarr and Professor
Fether"; such bits of extravaganza as "The Devil in the Belfry" and "The
Angel of the Odd"; such tales of adventure as "The Narrative of Arthur
Gordon Pym"; such papers of keen criticism and review as won for Poe the
enthusiastic admiration of Charles Dickens, although they made him many
enemies among the over-puffed minor American writers so mercilessly
exposed by him; such poems of beauty and melody as "The Bells," "The
Haunted Palace," "Tamerlane," "The City in the Sea" and "The Raven."
What delight for the jaded senses of the reader is this enchanted domain
of wonder-pieces! What an atmosphere of beauty, music, color! What
resources of imagination, construction, analysis and absolute art! One
might almost sympathize with Sarah Helen Whitman, who, confessing to
a half faith in the old superstition of the significance of anagrams,
found, in the transposed letters of Edgar Poe's name, the words "a
God-peer." His mind, she says, was indeed a "Haunted Palace," echoing to
the footfalls of angels and demons.

"No man," Poe himself wrote, "has recorded, no man has dared to record,
the wonders of his inner life."

In these twentieth century days--of lavish recognition--artistic,
popular and material--of genius, what rewards might not a Poe claim!

Edgar's father, a son of General David Poe, the American revolutionary
patriot and friend of Lafayette, had married Mrs. Hopkins, an English
actress, and, the match meeting with parental disapproval, had himself
taken to the stage as a profession. Notwithstanding Mrs. Poe's beauty
and talent the young couple had a sorry struggle for existence. When
Edgar, at the age of two years, was orphaned, the family was in the
utmost destitution. Apparently the future poet was to be cast upon the
world homeless and friendless. But fate decreed that a few glimmers of
sunshine were to illumine his life, for the little fellow was adopted
by John Allan, a wealthy merchant of Richmond, Va. A brother and sister,
the remaining children, were cared for by others.

In his new home Edgar found all the luxury and advantages money could
provide. He was petted, spoiled and shown off to strangers. In Mrs.
Allan he found all the affection a childless wife could bestow. Mr.
Allan took much pride in the captivating, precocious lad. At the age of
five the boy recited, with fine effect, passages of English poetry to
the visitors at the Allan house.

From his eighth to his thirteenth year he attended the Manor House
school, at Stoke-Newington, a suburb of London. It was the Rev. Dr.
Bransby, head of the school, whom Poe so quaintly portrayed in "William
Wilson." Returning to Richmond in 1820 Edgar was sent to the school
of Professor Joseph H. Clarke. He proved an apt pupil. Years afterward
Professor Clarke thus wrote:

"While the other boys wrote mere mechanical verses, Poe wrote genuine
poetry; the boy was a born poet. As a scholar he was ambitious to
excel. He was remarkable for self-respect, without haughtiness. He had
a sensitive and tender heart and would do anything for a friend. His
nature was entirely free from selfishness."

At the age of seventeen Poe entered the University of Virginia at
Charlottesville. He left that institution after one session. Official
records prove that he was not expelled. On the contrary, he gained
a creditable record as a student, although it is admitted that he
contracted debts and had "an ungovernable passion for card-playing."
These debts may have led to his quarrel with Mr. Allan which eventually
compelled him to make his own way in the world.

Early in 1827 Poe made his first literary venture. He induced Calvin
Thomas, a poor and youthful printer, to publish a small volume of his
verses under the title "Tamerlane and Other Poems." In 1829 we find Poe
in Baltimore with another manuscript volume of verses, which was soon
published. Its title was "Al Aaraaf, Tamerlane and Other Poems." Neither
of these ventures seems to have attracted much attention.

Soon after Mrs. Allan's death, which occurred in 1829, Poe, through
the aid of Mr. Allan, secured admission to the United States Military
Academy at West Point. Any glamour which may have attached to cadet life
in Poe's eyes was speedily lost, for discipline at West Point was never
so severe nor were the accommodations ever so poor. Poe's bent was
more and more toward literature. Life at the academy daily became
increasingly distasteful. Soon he began to purposely neglect his studies
and to disregard his duties, his aim being to secure his dismissal from
the United States service. In this he succeeded. On March 7, 1831, Poe
found himself free. Mr. Allan's second marriage had thrown the lad on
his own resources. His literary career was to begin.

Poe's first genuine victory was won in 1833, when he was the successful
competitor for a prize of $100 offered by a Baltimore periodical for the
best prose story. "A MSS. Found in a Bottle" was the winning tale. Poe
had submitted six stories in a volume. "Our only difficulty," says Mr.
Latrobe, one of the judges, "was in selecting from the rich contents of
the volume."

During the fifteen years of his literary life Poe was connected with
various newspapers and magazines in Richmond, Philadelphia and New York.
He was faithful, punctual, industrious, thorough. N. P. Willis, who for
some time employed Poe as critic and sub-editor on the "Evening Mirror,"
wrote thus:

"With the highest admiration for Poe's genius, and a willingness to
let it alone for more than ordinary irregularity, we were led by
common report to expect a very capricious attention to his duties, and
occasionally a scene of violence and difficulty. Time went on,
however, and he was invariably punctual and industrious. We saw but
one presentiment of the man-a quiet, patient, industrious and most
gentlemanly person.

"We heard, from one who knew him well (what should be stated in all
mention of his lamentable irregularities), that with a single glass of
wine his whole nature was reversed, the demon became uppermost, and,
though none of the usual signs of intoxication were visible, his will
was palpably insane. In this reversed character, we repeat, it was never
our chance to meet him."

On September 22, 1835, Poe married his cousin, Virginia Clemm, in
Baltimore. She had barely turned thirteen years, Poe himself was but
twenty-six. He then was a resident of Richmond and a regular contributor
to the "Southern Literary Messenger." It was not until a year later that
the bride and her widowed mother followed him thither.

Poe's devotion to his child-wife was one of the most beautiful features
of his life. Many of his famous poetic productions were inspired by her
beauty and charm. Consumption had marked her for its victim, and the
constant efforts of husband and mother were to secure for her all the
comfort and happiness their slender means permitted. Virginia died
January 30, 1847, when but twenty-five years of age. A friend of the
family pictures the death-bed scene--mother and husband trying to impart
warmth to her by chafing her hands and her feet, while her pet cat was
suffered to nestle upon her bosom for the sake of added warmth.

These verses from "Annabel Lee," written by Poe in 1849, the last year
of his life, tell of his sorrow at the loss of his child-wife:

     I was a child and _she_ was a child,
      In a kingdom by the sea;

     But we loved with _a _love that was more than love--
       I and my Annabel Lee;

     With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven
      Coveted her and me.
     And this was the reason that, long ago;
      In this kingdom by the sea.
     A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling
      My beautiful Annabel Lee;

     So that her high-born kinsmen came
      And bore her away from me,
     To shut her up in a sepulchre
      In this kingdom by the sea,


Poe was connected at various times and in various capacities with the
"Southern Literary Messenger" in Richmond, Va.; "Graham's Magazine" and
the "Gentleman's Magazine" in Philadelphia; the "Evening Mirror," the
"Broadway Journal," and "Godey's Lady's Book" in New York. Everywhere
Poe's life was one of unremitting toil. No tales and poems were ever
produced at a greater cost of brain and spirit.

Poe's initial salary with the "Southern Literary Messenger," to which
he contributed the first drafts of a number of his best-known tales,
was $10 a week! Two years later his salary was but $600 a year. Even in
1844, when his literary reputation was established securely, he wrote to
a friend expressing his pleasure because a magazine to which he was to
contribute had agreed to pay him $20 monthly for two pages of criticism.

Those were discouraging times in American literature, but Poe never
lost faith. He was finally to triumph wherever pre-eminent talents win
admirers. His genius has had no better description than in this stanza
from William Winter's poem, read at the dedication exercises of the
Actors' Monument to Poe, May 4, 1885, in New York:

     He was the voice of beauty and of woe,
     Passion and mystery and the dread unknown;
     Pure as the mountains of perpetual snow,
     Cold as the icy winds that round them moan,
     Dark as the caves wherein earth's thunders groan,
     Wild as the tempests of the upper sky,
     Sweet as the faint, far-off celestial tone of angel
         whispers, fluttering from on high,
     And tender as love's tear when youth and beauty die.


In the two and a half score years that have elapsed since Poe's death
he has come fully into his own. For a while Griswold's malignant
misrepresentations colored the public estimate of Poe as man and as
writer. But, thanks to J. H. Ingram, W. F. Gill, Eugene Didier, Sarah
Helen Whitman and others these scandals have been dispelled and Poe is
seen as he actually was-not as a man without failings, it is true, but
as the finest and most original genius in American letters. As the
years go on his fame increases. His works have been translated into
many foreign languages. His is a household name in France and England-in
fact, the latter nation has often uttered the reproach that Poe's own
country has been slow to appreciate him. But that reproach, if it ever
was warranted, certainly is untrue.

                                     W. H. R.




EDGAR ALLAN POE

By James Russell Lowell


THE situation of American literature is anomalous. It has no centre, or,
if it have, it is like that of the sphere of Hermes. It is divided
into many systems, each revolving round its several suns, and often
presenting to the rest only the faint glimmer of a milk-and-water way.
Our capital city, unlike London or Paris, is not a great central heart
from which life and vigor radiate to the extremities, but resembles more
an isolated umbilicus stuck down as near as may be to the centre of the
land, and seeming rather to tell a legend of former usefulness than to
serve any present need. Boston, New York, Philadelphia, each has its
literature almost more distinct than those of the different dialects
of Germany; and the Young Queen of the West has also one of her own,
of which some articulate rumor barely has reached us dwellers by the
Atlantic.

Perhaps there is no task more difficult than the just criticism of
contemporary literature. It is even more grateful to give praise where
it is needed than where it is deserved, and friendship so often seduces
the iron stylus of justice into a vague flourish, that she writes what
seems rather like an epitaph than a criticism. Yet if praise be given
as an alms, we could not drop so poisonous a one into any man's hat. The
critic's ink may suffer equally from too large an infusion of nutgalls
or of sugar. But it is easier to be generous than to be just, and we
might readily put faith in that fabulous direction to the hiding place
of truth, did we judge from the amount of water which we usually find
mixed with it.

Remarkable experiences are usually confined to the inner life of
imaginative men, but Mr. Poe's biography displays a vicissitude and
peculiarity of interest such as is rarely met with. The offspring of a
romantic marriage, and left an orphan at an early age, he was adopted
by Mr. Allan, a wealthy Virginian, whose barren marriage-bed seemed the
warranty of a large estate to the young poet.

Having received a classical education in England, he returned home and
entered the University of Virginia, where, after an extravagant course,
followed by reformation at the last extremity, he was graduated with
the highest honors of his class. Then came a boyish attempt to join the
fortunes of the insurgent Greeks, which ended at St. Petersburg, where
he got into difficulties through want of a passport, from which he
was rescued by the American consul and sent home. He now entered the
military academy at West Point, from which he obtained a dismissal
on hearing of the birth of a son to his adopted father, by a second
marriage, an event which cut off his expectations as an heir. The death
of Mr. Allan, in whose will his name was not mentioned, soon after
relieved him of all doubt in this regard, and he committed himself at
once to authorship for a support. Previously to this, however, he had
published (in 1827) a small volume of poems, which soon ran through
three editions, and excited high expectations of its author's future
distinction in the minds of many competent judges.

That no certain augury can be drawn from a poet's earliest lispings
there are instances enough to prove. Shakespeare's first poems, though
brimful of vigor and youth and picturesqueness, give but a very faint
promise of the directness, condensation and overflowing moral of his
maturer works. Perhaps, however, Shakespeare is hardly a case in
point, his "Venus and Adonis" having been published, we believe, in his
twenty-sixth year. Milton's Latin verses show tenderness, a fine eye for
nature, and a delicate appreciation of classic models, but give no hint
of the author of a new style in poetry. Pope's youthful pieces have
all the sing-song, wholly unrelieved by the glittering malignity
and eloquent irreligion of his later productions. Collins' callow
namby-pamby died and gave no sign of the vigorous and original genius
which he afterward displayed. We have never thought that the world lost
more in the "marvellous boy," Chatterton, than a very ingenious imitator
of obscure and antiquated dulness. Where he becomes original (as it is
called), the interest of ingenuity ceases and he becomes stupid. Kirke
White's promises were indorsed by the respectable name of Mr. Southey,
but surely with no authority from Apollo. They have the merit of a
traditional piety, which to our mind, if uttered at all, had been less
objectionable in the retired closet of a diary, and in the sober raiment
of prose. They do not clutch hold of the memory with the drowning
pertinacity of Watts; neither have they the interest of his occasional
simple, lucky beauty. Burns having fortunately been rescued by his
humble station from the contaminating society of the "Best models,"
wrote well and naturally from the first. Had he been unfortunate enough
to have had an educated taste, we should have had a series of poems from
which, as from his letters, we could sift here and there a kernel from
the mass of chaff. Coleridge's youthful efforts give no promise whatever
of that poetical genius which produced at once the wildest, tenderest,
most original and most purely imaginative poems of modern times. Byron's
"Hours of Idleness" would never find a reader except from an intrepid
and indefatigable curiosity. In Wordsworth's first preludings there
is but a dim foreboding of the creator of an era. From Southey's early
poems, a safer augury might have been drawn. They show the patient
investigator, the close student of history, and the unwearied explorer
of the beauties of predecessors, but they give no assurances of a man
who should add aught to stock of household words, or to the rarer
and more sacred delights of the fireside or the arbor. The earliest
specimens of Shelley's poetic mind already, also, give tokens of that
ethereal sublimation in which the spirit seems to soar above the regions
of words, but leaves its body, the verse, to be entombed, without hope
of resurrection, in a mass of them. Cowley is generally instanced as a
wonder of precocity. But his early insipidities show only a capacity
for rhyming and for the metrical arrangement of certain conventional
combinations of words, a capacity wholly dependent on a delicate
physical organization, and an unhappy memory. An early poem is only
remarkable when it displays an effort of _reason, _and the rudest verses
in which we can trace some conception of the ends of poetry, are worth
all the miracles of smooth juvenile versification. A school-boy, one
would say, might acquire the regular see-saw of Pope merely by an
association with the motion of the play-ground tilt.

Mr. Poe's early productions show that he could see through the verse to
the spirit beneath, and that he already had a feeling that all the life
and grace of the one must depend on and be modulated by the will of the
other. We call them the most remarkable boyish poems that we have
ever read. We know of none that can compare with them for maturity of
purpose, and a nice understanding of the effects of language and metre.
Such pieces are only valuable when they display what we can only express
by the contradictory phrase of _innate experience. _We copy one of the
shorter poems, written when the author was only fourteen. There is a
little dimness in the filling up, but the grace and symmetry of the
outline are such as few poets ever attain. There is a smack of ambrosia
about it.

     TO HELEN

     Helen, thy beauty is to me
       Like those Nicean barks of yore,
     That gently, o'er a perfumed sea,
       The weary, way-worn wanderer bore
     To his own native shore.

     On desperate seas long wont to roam,
       Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face,
     Thy Naiad airs have brought me home
       To the glory that was Greece
     And the grandeur that was Rome.

     Lo! in yon brilliant window-niche
       How statue-like I see thee stand!
     The agate lamp within thy hand,
       Ah! Psyche, from the regions which
     Are Holy Land!


It is the tendency of the young poet that impresses us. Here is no
"withering scorn," no heart "blighted" ere it has safely got into its
teens, none of the drawing-room sansculottism which Byron had brought
into vogue. All is limpid and serene, with a pleasant dash of the Greek
Helicon in it. The melody of the whole, too, is remarkable. It is not of
that kind which can be demonstrated arithmetically upon the tips of
the fingers. It is of that finer sort which the inner ear alone
_can _estimate. It seems simple, like a Greek column, because of its
perfection. In a poem named "Ligeia," under which title he intended
to personify the music of nature, our boy-poet gives us the following
exquisite picture:

       Ligeia! Ligeia!
     My beautiful one,
       Whose harshest idea
     Will to melody run,
       Say, is it thy will,
     On the breezes to toss,
       Or, capriciously still,
     Like the lone albatross,
       Incumbent on night,
     As she on the air,
       To keep watch with delight
     On the harmony there?

John Neal, himself a man of genius, and whose lyre has been too long
capriciously silent, appreciated the high merit of these and similar
passages, and drew a proud horoscope for their author.

Mr. Poe had that indescribable something which men have agreed to call
_genius_. No man could ever tell us precisely what it is, and yet there
is none who is not inevitably aware of its presence and its power. Let
talent writhe and contort itself as it may, it has no such magnetism.
Larger of bone and sinew it may be, but the wings are wanting. Talent
sticks fast to earth, and its most perfect works have still one foot of
clay. Genius claims kindred with the very workings of Nature herself, so
that a sunset shall seem like a quotation from Dante, and if Shakespeare
be read in the very presence of the sea itself, his verses shall but
seem nobler for the sublime criticism of ocean. Talent may make friends
for itself, but only genius can give to its creations the divine power
of winning love and veneration. Enthusiasm cannot cling to what itself
is unenthusiastic, nor will he ever have disciples who has not himself
impulsive zeal enough to be a disciple. Great wits are allied to madness
only inasmuch as they are possessed and carried away by their demon,
while talent keeps him, as Paracelsus did, securely prisoned in the
pommel of his sword. To the eye of genius, the veil of the spiritual
world is ever rent asunder that it may perceive the ministers of good
and evil who throng continually around it. No man of mere talent ever
flung his inkstand at the devil.

When we say that Mr. Poe had genius, we do not mean to say that he has
produced evidence of the highest. But to say that he possesses it at
all is to say that he needs only zeal, industry, and a reverence for the
trust reposed in him, to achieve the proudest triumphs and the greenest
laurels. If we may believe the Longinuses and Aristotles of our
newspapers, we have quite too many geniuses of the loftiest order to
render a place among them at all desirable, whether for its hardness
of attainment or its seclusion. The highest peak of our Parnassus is,
according to these gentlemen, by far the most thickly settled portion
of the country, a circumstance which must make it an uncomfortable
residence for individuals of a poetical temperament, if love of
solitude be, as immemorial tradition asserts, a necessary part of their
idiosyncrasy.

Mr. Poe has two of the prime qualities of genius, a faculty of vigorous
yet minute analysis, and a wonderful fecundity of imagination. The first
of these faculties is as needful to the artist in words, as a knowledge
of anatomy is to the artist in colors or in stone. This enables him to
conceive truly, to maintain a proper relation of parts, and to draw a
correct outline, while the second groups, fills up and colors. Both
of these Mr. Poe has displayed with singular distinctness in his prose
works, the last predominating in his earlier tales, and the first in his
later ones. In judging of the merit of an author, and assigning him his
niche among our household gods, we have a right to regard him from
our own point of view, and to measure him by our own standard. But,
in estimating the amount of power displayed in his works, we must be
governed by his own design, and placing them by the side of his own
ideal, find how much is wanting. We differ from Mr. Poe in his opinions
of the objects of art. He esteems that object to be the creation of
Beauty, and perhaps it is only in the definition of that word that we
disagree with him. But in what we shall say of his writings, we shall
take his own standard as our guide. The temple of the god of song is
equally accessible from every side, and there is room enough in it for
all who bring offerings, or seek in oracle.

In his tales, Mr. Poe has chosen to exhibit his power chiefly in that
dim region which stretches from the very utmost limits of the probable
into the weird confines of superstition and unreality. He combines in
a very remarkable manner two faculties which are seldom found united; a
power of influencing the mind of the reader by the impalpable shadows
of mystery, and a minuteness of detail which does not leave a pin or
a button unnoticed. Both are, in truth, the natural results of the
predominating quality of his mind, to which we have before alluded,
analysis. It is this which distinguishes the artist. His mind at once
reaches forward to the effect to be produced. Having resolved to bring
about certain emotions in the reader, he makes all subordinate parts
tend strictly to the common centre. Even his mystery is mathematical
to his own mind. To him X is a known quantity all along. In any picture
that he paints he understands the chemical properties of all his
colors. However vague some of his figures may seem, however formless
the shadows, to him the outline is as clear and distinct as that of
a geometrical diagram. For this reason Mr. Poe has no sympathy with
Mysticism. The Mystic dwells in the mystery, is enveloped with it; it
colors all his thoughts; it affects his optic nerve especially, and the
commonest things get a rainbow edging from it. Mr. Poe, on the other
hand, is a spectator _ab extra_. He analyzes, he dissects, he watches

        "with an eye serene,
     The very pulse of the machine,"


for such it practically is to him, with wheels and cogs and piston-rods,
all working to produce a certain end.

This analyzing tendency of his mind balances the poetical, and by giving
him the patience to be minute, enables him to throw a wonderful reality
into his most unreal fancies. A monomania he paints with great power. He
loves to dissect one of these cancers of the mind, and to trace all the
subtle ramifications of its roots. In raising images of horror, also,
he has strange success, conveying to us sometimes by a dusky hint
some terrible _doubt _which is the secret of all horror. He leaves to
imagination the task of finishing the picture, a task to which only she
is competent.

     "For much imaginary work was there;
     Conceit deceitful, so compact, so kind,
     That for Achilles' image stood his spear
     Grasped in an armed hand; himself behind
     Was left unseen, save to the eye of mind."

Besides the merit of conception, Mr. Poe's writings have also that of
form.

His style is highly finished, graceful and truly classical. It would be
hard to find a living author who had displayed such varied powers. As an
example of his style we would refer to one of his tales, "The House
of Usher," in the first volume of his "Tales of the Grotesque and
Arabesque." It has a singular charm for us, and we think that no one
could read it without being strongly moved by its serene and sombre
beauty. Had its author written nothing else, it would alone have been
enough to stamp him as a man of genius, and the master of a classic
style. In this tale occurs, perhaps, the most beautiful of his poems.

The great masters of imagination have seldom resorted to the vague and
the unreal as sources of effect. They have not used dread and horror
alone, but only in combination with other qualities, as means of
subjugating the fancies of their readers. The loftiest muse has ever a
household and fireside charm about her. Mr. Poe's secret lies mainly in
the skill with which he has employed the strange fascination of mystery
and terror. In this his success is so great and striking as to deserve
the name of art, not artifice. We cannot call his materials the noblest
or purest, but we must concede to him the highest merit of construction.

As a critic, Mr. Poe was aesthetically deficient. Unerring in his
analysis of dictions, metres and plots, he seemed wanting in the faculty
of perceiving the profounder ethics of art. His criticisms are, however,
distinguished for scientific precision and coherence of logic. They
have the exactness, and at the same time, the coldness of mathematical
demonstrations. Yet they stand in strikingly refreshing contrast with
the vague generalisms and sharp personalities of the day. If deficient
in warmth, they are also without the heat of partisanship. They are
especially valuable as illustrating the great truth, too generally
overlooked, that analytic power is a subordinate quality of the critic.

On the whole, it may be considered certain that Mr. Poe has attained an
individual eminence in our literature which he will keep. He has given
proof of power and originality. He has done that which could only be
done once with success or safety, and the imitation or repetition of
which would produce weariness.




DEATH OF EDGAR A. POE

By N. P. Willis


THE ancient fable of two antagonistic spirits imprisoned in one body,
equally powerful and having the complete mastery by turns-of one man,
that is to say, inhabited by both a devil and an angel seems to
have been realized, if all we hear is true, in the character of the
extraordinary man whose name we have written above. Our own impression
of the nature of Edgar A. Poe, differs in some important degree,
however, from that which has been generally conveyed in the notices of
his death. Let us, before telling what we personally know of him, copy
a graphic and highly finished portraiture, from the pen of Dr. Rufus W.
Griswold, which appeared in a recent number of the "Tribune":

"Edgar Allen Poe is dead. He died in Baltimore on Sunday, October 7th.
This announcement will startle many, but few will be grieved by it. The
poet was known, personally or by reputation, in all this country; he had
readers in England and in several of the states of Continental Europe;
but he had few or no friends; and the regrets for his death will be
suggested principally by the consideration that in him literary art has
lost one of its most brilliant but erratic stars.

"His conversation was at times almost supramortal in its eloquence. His
voice was modulated with astonishing skill, and his large and variably
expressive eyes looked repose or shot fiery tumult into theirs who
listened, while his own face glowed, or was changeless in pallor, as his
imagination quickened his blood or drew it back frozen to his heart. His
imagery was from the worlds which no mortals can see but with the vision
of genius. Suddenly starting from a proposition, exactly and sharply
defined, in terms of utmost simplicity and clearness, he rejected the
forms of customary logic, and by a crystalline process of accretion,
built up his ocular demonstrations in forms of gloomiest and ghastliest
grandeur, or in those of the most airy and delicious beauty, so minutely
and distinctly, yet so rapidly, that the attention which was yielded
to him was chained till it stood among his wonderful creations, till he
himself dissolved the spell, and brought his hearers back to common
and base existence, by vulgar fancies or exhibitions of the ignoblest
passion.

"He was at all times a dreamer dwelling in ideal realms, in heaven or
hell, peopled with the creatures and the accidents of his brain. He
walked the streets, in madness or melancholy, with lips moving in
indistinct curses, or with eyes upturned in passionate prayer (never for
himself, for he felt, or professed to feel, that he was already damned,
but) for their happiness who at the moment were objects of his idolatry;
or with his glances introverted to a heart gnawed with anguish, and with
a face shrouded in gloom, he would brave the wildest storms, and all
night, with drenched garments and arms beating the winds and rains,
would speak as if the spirits that at such times only could be evoked by
him from the Aidenn, close by whose portals his disturbed soul sought to
forget the ills to which his constitution subjected him--close by the
Aidenn where were those he loved--the Aidenn which he might never see,
but in fitful glimpses, as its gates opened to receive the less fiery
and more happy natures whose destiny to sin did not involve the doom of
death.

"He seemed, except when some fitful pursuit subjugated his will and
engrossed his faculties, always to bear the memory of some controlling
sorrow. The remarkable poem of 'The Raven' was probably much more nearly
than has been supposed, even by those who were very intimate with him, a
reflection and an echo of his own history. _He_ was that bird's

     "'Unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
     Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore--
     Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
          Of 'Never-never more.'


"Every genuine author in a greater or less degree leaves in his works,
whatever their design, traces of his personal character: elements of his
immortal being, in which the individual survives the person. While we
read the pages of the 'Fall of the House of Usher,' or of 'Mesmeric
Revelations,' we see in the solemn and stately gloom which invests one,
and in the subtle metaphysical analysis of both, indications of the
idiosyncrasies of what was most remarkable and peculiar in the author's
intellectual nature. But we see here only the better phases of his
nature, only the symbols of his juster action, for his harsh experience
had deprived him of all faith in man or woman. He had made up his mind
upon the numberless complexities of the social world, and the whole
system with him was an imposture. This conviction gave a direction to
his shrewd and naturally unamiable character. Still, though he regarded
society as composed altogether of villains, the sharpness of his
intellect was not of that kind which enabled him to cope with villany,
while it continually caused him by overshots to fail of the success of
honesty. He was in many respects like Francis Vivian in Bulwer's novel
of 'The Caxtons.' Passion, in him, comprehended--many of the worst
emotions which militate against human happiness. You could not
contradict him, but you raised quick choler; you could not speak of
wealth, but his cheek paled with gnawing envy. The astonishing natural
advantages of this poor boy--his beauty, his readiness, the daring
spirit that breathed around him like a fiery atmosphere--had raised his
constitutional self-confidence into an arrogance that turned his
very claims to admiration into prejudices against him. Irascible,
envious--bad enough, but not the worst, for these salient angles were
all varnished over with a cold, repellant cynicism, his passions vented
themselves in sneers. There seemed to him no moral susceptibility; and,
what was more remarkable in a proud nature, little or nothing of the
true point of honor. He had, to a morbid excess, that, desire to rise
which is vulgarly called ambition, but no wish for the esteem or the
love of his species; only the hard wish to succeed-not shine, not
serve--succeed, that he might have the right to despise a world which
galled his self-conceit.

"We have suggested the influence of his aims and vicissitudes upon his
literature. It was more conspicuous in his later than in his
earlier writings. Nearly all that he wrote in the last two or three
years-including much of his best poetry-was in some sense biographical;
in draperies of his imagination, those who had taken the trouble to
trace his steps, could perceive, but slightly concealed, the figure of
himself."

Apropos of the disparaging portion of the above well-written sketch, let
us truthfully say:

Some four or five years since, when editing a daily paper in this
city, Mr. Poe was employed by us, for several months, as critic and
sub-editor. This was our first personal acquaintance with him. He
resided with his wife and mother at Fordham, a few miles out of town,
but was at his desk in the office, from nine in the morning till the
evening paper went to press. With the highest admiration for his genius,
and a willingness to let it atone for more than ordinary irregularity,
we were led by common report to expect a very capricious attention to
his duties, and occasionally a scene of violence and difficulty. Time
went on, however, and he was invariably punctual and industrious. With
his pale, beautiful, and intellectual face, as a reminder of what genius
was in him, it was impossible, of course, not to treat him always with
deferential courtesy, and, to our occasional request that he would not
probe too deep in a criticism, or that he would erase a passage colored
too highly with his resentments against society and mankind, he readily
and courteously assented-far more yielding than most men, we thought,
on points so excusably sensitive. With a prospect of taking the lead in
another periodical, he, at last, voluntarily gave up his employment
with us, and, through all this considerable period, we had seen but
one presentment of the man-a quiet, patient, industrious, and most
gentlemanly person, commanding the utmost respect and good feeling by
his unvarying deportment and ability.

Residing as he did in the country, we never met Mr. Poe in hours of
leisure; but he frequently called on us afterward at our place of
business, and we met him often in the street-invariably the same sad
mannered, winning and refined gentleman, such as we had always known
him. It was by rumor only, up to the day of his death, that we knew of
any other development of manner or character. We heard, from one who
knew him well (what should be stated in all mention of his lamentable
irregularities), that, with a single glass of wine, his whole nature
was reversed, the demon became uppermost, and, though none of the
usual signs of intoxication were visible, his will was palpably insane.
Possessing his reasoning faculties in excited activity, at such times,
and seeking his acquaintances with his wonted look and memory, he easily
seemed personating only another phase of his natural character, and was
accused, accordingly, of insulting arrogance and bad-heartedness. In
this reversed character, we repeat, it was never our chance to see him.
We know it from hearsay, and we mention it in connection with this sad
infirmity of physical constitution; which puts it upon very nearly the
ground of a temporary and almost irresponsible insanity.

The arrogance, vanity, and depravity of heart, of which Mr. Poe was
generally accused, seem to us referable altogether to this reversed
phase of his character. Under that degree of intoxication which only
acted upon him by demonizing his sense of truth and right, he doubtless
said and did much that was wholly irreconcilable with his better nature;
but, when himself, and as we knew him only, his modesty and unaffected
humility, as to his own deservings, were a constant charm to his
character. His letters, of which the constant application for autographs
has taken from us, we are sorry to confess, the greater portion,
exhibited this quality very strongly. In one of the carelessly written
notes of which we chance still to retain possession, for instance, he
speaks of "The Raven"--that extraordinary poem which electrified the
world of imaginative readers, and has become the type of a school of
poetry of its own-and, in evident earnest, attributes its success to
the few words of commendation with which we had prefaced it in this
paper.--It will throw light on his sane character to give a literal copy
of the note:

                                  "FORDHAM, April 20, 1849


"My DEAR WILLIS--The poem which I inclose, and which I am so vain as to
hope you will like, in some respects, has been just published in a paper
for which sheer necessity compels me to write, now and then. It pays
well as times go-but unquestionably it ought to pay ten prices; for
whatever I send it I feel I am consigning to the tomb of the Capulets.
The verses accompanying this, may I beg you to take out of the tomb, and
bring them to light in the 'Home journal?' If you can oblige me so far
as to copy them, I do not think it will be necessary to say 'From the
----, that would be too bad; and, perhaps, 'From a late ---- paper,'
would do.

"I have not forgotten how a 'good word in season' from you made 'The
Raven,' and made 'Ulalume' (which by-the-way, people have done me the
honor of attributing to you), therefore, I would ask you (if I dared) to
say something of these lines if they please you.

                      "Truly yours ever,

                        "EDGAR A. POE."


In double proof of his earnest disposition to do the best for himself,
and of the trustful and grateful nature which has been denied him, we
give another of the only three of his notes which we chance to retain:

                          "FORDHAM, January 22, 1848.


"My DEAR MR. WILLIS--I am about to make an effort at re-establishing
myself in the literary world, and _feel _that I may depend upon your
aid.

"My general aim is to start a Magazine, to be called 'The Stylus,' but
it would be useless to me, even when established, if not entirely out of
the control of a publisher. I mean, therefore, to get up a journal which
shall be _my own_ at all points. With this end in view, I must get a
list of at least five hundred subscribers to begin with; nearly two
hundred I have already. I propose, however, to go South and West,
among my personal and literary friends--old college and West Point
acquaintances--and see what I can do. In order to get the means of
taking the first step, I propose to lecture at the Society Library,
on Thursday, the 3d of February, and, that there may be no cause of
_squabbling_, my subject shall _not be literary _at all. I have chosen a
broad text: 'The Universe.'

"Having thus given you _the facts_ of the case, I leave all the rest
to the suggestions of your own tact and generosity. Gratefully, _most
gratefully,_

                         _"Your friend always,_

                             _"EDGAR A. POE._"


Brief and chance-taken as these letters are, we think they sufficiently
prove the existence of the very qualities denied to Mr. Poe-humility,
willingness to persevere, belief in another's friendship, and capability
of cordial and grateful friendship! Such he assuredly was when sane.
Such only he has invariably seemed to us, in all we have happened
personally to know of him, through a friendship of five or six years.
And so much easier is it to believe what we have seen and known, than
what we hear of only, that we remember him but with admiration and
respect; these descriptions of him, when morally insane, seeming to
us like portraits, painted in sickness, of a man we have only known in
health.

But there is another, more touching, and far more forcible evidence that
there was _goodness _in Edgar A. Poe. To reveal it we are obliged to
venture upon the lifting of the veil which sacredly covers grief and
refinement in poverty; but we think it may be excused, if so we can
brighten the memory of the poet, even were there not a more needed and
immediate service which it may render to the nearest link broken by his
death.

Our first knowledge of Mr. Poe's removal to this city was by a call
which we received from a lady who introduced herself to us as the mother
of his wife. She was in search of employment for him, and she excused
her errand by mentioning that he was ill, that her daughter was a
confirmed invalid, and that their circumstances were such as compelled
her taking it upon herself. The countenance of this lady, made beautiful
and saintly with an evidently complete giving up of her life to
privation and sorrowful tenderness, her gentle and mournful voice urging
its plea, her long-forgotten but habitually and unconsciously refined
manners, and her appealing and yet appreciative mention of the claims
and abilities of her son, disclosed at once the presence of one of those
angels upon earth that women in adversity can be. It was a hard fate
that she was watching over. Mr. Poe wrote with fastidious difficulty,
and in a style too much above the popular level to be well paid. He was
always in pecuniary difficulty, and, with his sick wife, frequently in
want of the merest necessaries of life. Winter after winter, for
years, the most touching sight to us, in this whole city, has been that
tireless minister to genius, thinly and insufficiently clad, going from
office to office with a poem, or an article on some literary subject, to
sell, sometimes simply pleading in a broken voice that he was ill, and
begging for him, mentioning nothing but that "he was ill," whatever
might be the reason for his writing nothing, and never, amid all her
tears and recitals of distress, suffering one syllable to escape her
lips that could convey a doubt of him, or a complaint, or a lessening of
pride in his genius and good intentions. Her daughter died a year and
a half since, but she did not desert him. She continued his ministering
angel--living with him, caring for him, guarding him against exposure,
and when he was carried away by temptation, amid grief and the
loneliness of feelings unreplied to, and awoke from his self abandonment
prostrated in destitution and suffering, _begging _for him still. If
woman's devotion, born with a first love, and fed with human passion,
hallow its object, as it is allowed to do, what does not a devotion
like this-pure, disinterested and holy as the watch of an invisible
spirit-say for him who inspired it?

We have a letter before us, written by this lady, Mrs. Clemm, on the
morning in which she heard of the death of this object of her untiring
care. It is merely a request that we would call upon her, but we will
copy a few of its words--sacred as its privacy is--to warrant the truth
of the picture we have drawn above, and add force to the appeal we wish
to make for her:

"I have this morning heard of the death of my darling Eddie.... Can you
give me any circumstances or particulars?... Oh! do not desert your
poor friend in his bitter affliction!... Ask Mr. ---- to come, as I must
deliver a message to him from my poor Eddie.... I need not ask you to
notice his death and to speak well of him. I know you will. But say what
an affectionate son he was to me, his poor desolate mother..."

To hedge round a grave with respect, what choice is there, between the
relinquished wealth and honors of the world, and the story of such a
woman's unrewarded devotion! Risking what we do, in delicacy, by making
it public, we feel--other reasons aside--that it betters the world to
make known that there are such ministrations to its erring and gifted.
What we have said will speak to some hearts. There are those who will
be glad to know how the lamp, whose light of poetry has beamed on their
far-away recognition, was watched over with care and pain, that they
may send to her, who is more darkened than they by its extinction, some
token of their sympathy. She is destitute and alone. If any, far or
near, will send to us what may aid and cheer her through the remainder
of her life, we will joyfully place it in her hands.





THE UNPARALLELED ADVENTURES OF ONE HANS PFAALL (*1)

BY late accounts from Rotterdam, that city seems to be in a high state
of philosophical excitement. Indeed, phenomena have there occurred of
a nature so completely unexpected--so entirely novel--so utterly at
variance with preconceived opinions--as to leave no doubt on my mind
that long ere this all Europe is in an uproar, all physics in a ferment,
all reason and astronomy together by the ears.

It appears that on the---- day of---- (I am not positive about the
date), a vast crowd of people, for purposes not specifically
mentioned, were assembled in the great square of the Exchange in the
well-conditioned city of Rotterdam. The day was warm--unusually so for
the season--there was hardly a breath of air stirring; and the multitude
were in no bad humor at being now and then besprinkled with friendly
showers of momentary duration, that fell from large white masses
of cloud which chequered in a fitful manner the blue vault of the
firmament. Nevertheless, about noon, a slight but remarkable agitation
became apparent in the assembly: the clattering of ten thousand tongues
succeeded; and, in an instant afterward, ten thousand faces were
upturned toward the heavens, ten thousand pipes descended simultaneously
from the corners of ten thousand mouths, and a shout, which could be
compared to nothing but the roaring of Niagara, resounded long, loudly,
and furiously, through all the environs of Rotterdam.

The origin of this hubbub soon became sufficiently evident. From behind
the huge bulk of one of those sharply-defined masses of cloud already
mentioned, was seen slowly to emerge into an open area of blue space, a
queer, heterogeneous, but apparently solid substance, so oddly shaped,
so whimsically put together, as not to be in any manner comprehended,
and never to be sufficiently admired, by the host of sturdy burghers who
stood open-mouthed below. What could it be? In the name of all the vrows
and devils in Rotterdam, what could it possibly portend? No one knew, no
one could imagine; no one--not even the burgomaster Mynheer Superbus Von
Underduk--had the slightest clew by which to unravel the mystery; so, as
nothing more reasonable could be done, every one to a man replaced his
pipe carefully in the corner of his mouth, and cocking up his right
eye towards the phenomenon, puffed, paused, waddled about, and grunted
significantly--then waddled back, grunted, paused, and finally--puffed
again.

In the meantime, however, lower and still lower toward the goodly city,
came the object of so much curiosity, and the cause of so much smoke. In
a very few minutes it arrived near enough to be accurately discerned. It
appeared to be--yes! it was undoubtedly a species of balloon; but surely
no such balloon had ever been seen in Rotterdam before. For who, let me
ask, ever heard of a balloon manufactured entirely of dirty newspapers?
No man in Holland certainly; yet here, under the very noses of the
people, or rather at some distance above their noses was the identical
thing in question, and composed, I have it on the best authority, of
the precise material which no one had ever before known to be used for
a similar purpose. It was an egregious insult to the good sense of the
burghers of Rotterdam. As to the shape of the phenomenon, it was even
still more reprehensible. Being little or nothing better than a huge
foolscap turned upside down. And this similitude was regarded as by no
means lessened when, upon nearer inspection, there was perceived a large
tassel depending from its apex, and, around the upper rim or base of the
cone, a circle of little instruments, resembling sheep-bells, which kept
up a continual tinkling to the tune of Betty Martin. But still worse.
Suspended by blue ribbons to the end of this fantastic machine,
there hung, by way of car, an enormous drab beaver hat, with a brim
superlatively broad, and a hemispherical crown with a black band and a
silver buckle. It is, however, somewhat remarkable that many citizens
of Rotterdam swore to having seen the same hat repeatedly before; and
indeed the whole assembly seemed to regard it with eyes of familiarity;
while the vrow Grettel Pfaall, upon sight of it, uttered an exclamation
of joyful surprise, and declared it to be the identical hat of her good
man himself. Now this was a circumstance the more to be observed, as
Pfaall, with three companions, had actually disappeared from Rotterdam
about five years before, in a very sudden and unaccountable manner, and
up to the date of this narrative all attempts had failed of obtaining
any intelligence concerning them whatsoever. To be sure, some bones
which were thought to be human, mixed up with a quantity of odd-looking
rubbish, had been lately discovered in a retired situation to the east
of Rotterdam, and some people went so far as to imagine that in this
spot a foul murder had been committed, and that the sufferers were in
all probability Hans Pfaall and his associates. But to return.

The balloon (for such no doubt it was) had now descended to within
a hundred feet of the earth, allowing the crowd below a sufficiently
distinct view of the person of its occupant. This was in truth a very
droll little somebody. He could not have been more than two feet in
height; but this altitude, little as it was, would have been sufficient
to destroy his equilibrium, and tilt him over the edge of his tiny
car, but for the intervention of a circular rim reaching as high as
the breast, and rigged on to the cords of the balloon. The body of the
little man was more than proportionately broad, giving to his entire
figure a rotundity highly absurd. His feet, of course, could not be seen
at all, although a horny substance of suspicious nature was occasionally
protruded through a rent in the bottom of the car, or to speak more
properly, in the top of the hat. His hands were enormously large. His
hair was extremely gray, and collected in a cue behind. His nose was
prodigiously long, crooked, and inflammatory; his eyes full, brilliant,
and acute; his chin and cheeks, although wrinkled with age, were broad,
puffy, and double; but of ears of any kind or character there was not a
semblance to be discovered upon any portion of his head. This odd little
gentleman was dressed in a loose surtout of sky-blue satin, with tight
breeches to match, fastened with silver buckles at the knees. His vest
was of some bright yellow material; a white taffety cap was set jauntily
on one side of his head; and, to complete his equipment, a blood-red
silk handkerchief enveloped his throat, and fell down, in a dainty
manner, upon his bosom, in a fantastic bow-knot of super-eminent
dimensions.

Having descended, as I said before, to about one hundred feet from the
surface of the earth, the little old gentleman was suddenly seized
with a fit of trepidation, and appeared disinclined to make any nearer
approach to terra firma. Throwing out, therefore, a quantity of sand
from a canvas bag, which, he lifted with great difficulty, he became
stationary in an instant. He then proceeded, in a hurried and agitated
manner, to extract from a side-pocket in his surtout a large morocco
pocket-book. This he poised suspiciously in his hand, then eyed it with
an air of extreme surprise, and was evidently astonished at its weight.
He at length opened it, and drawing there from a huge letter sealed with
red sealing-wax and tied carefully with red tape, let it fall precisely
at the feet of the burgomaster, Superbus Von Underduk. His Excellency
stooped to take it up. But the aeronaut, still greatly discomposed, and
having apparently no farther business to detain him in Rotterdam, began
at this moment to make busy preparations for departure; and it being
necessary to discharge a portion of ballast to enable him to reascend,
the half dozen bags which he threw out, one after another, without
taking the trouble to empty their contents, tumbled, every one of them,
most unfortunately upon the back of the burgomaster, and rolled him over
and over no less than one-and-twenty times, in the face of every man in
Rotterdam. It is not to be supposed, however, that the great Underduk
suffered this impertinence on the part of the little old man to pass off
with impunity. It is said, on the contrary, that during each and every
one of his one-and twenty circumvolutions he emitted no less than
one-and-twenty distinct and furious whiffs from his pipe, to which he
held fast the whole time with all his might, and to which he intends
holding fast until the day of his death.

In the meantime the balloon arose like a lark, and, soaring far away
above the city, at length drifted quietly behind a cloud similar to that
from which it had so oddly emerged, and was thus lost forever to the
wondering eyes of the good citizens of Rotterdam. All attention was
now directed to the letter, the descent of which, and the consequences
attending thereupon, had proved so fatally subversive of both person and
personal dignity to his Excellency, the illustrious Burgomaster Mynheer
Superbus Von Underduk. That functionary, however, had not failed, during
his circumgyratory movements, to bestow a thought upon the important
subject of securing the packet in question, which was seen, upon
inspection, to have fallen into the most proper hands, being actually
addressed to himself and Professor Rub-a-dub, in their official
capacities of President and Vice-President of the Rotterdam College of
Astronomy. It was accordingly opened by those dignitaries upon the
spot, and found to contain the following extraordinary, and indeed very
serious, communications.

To their Excellencies Von Underduk and Rub-a-dub, President and
Vice-President of the States' College of Astronomers, in the city of
Rotterdam.

"Your Excellencies may perhaps be able to remember an humble artizan, by
name Hans Pfaall, and by occupation a mender of bellows, who, with three
others, disappeared from Rotterdam, about five years ago, in a manner
which must have been considered by all parties at once sudden, and
extremely unaccountable. If, however, it so please your Excellencies, I,
the writer of this communication, am the identical Hans Pfaall himself.
It is well known to most of my fellow citizens, that for the period of
forty years I continued to occupy the little square brick building, at
the head of the alley called Sauerkraut, in which I resided at the time
of my disappearance. My ancestors have also resided therein time out of
mind--they, as well as myself, steadily following the respectable and
indeed lucrative profession of mending of bellows. For, to speak the
truth, until of late years, that the heads of all the people have been
set agog with politics, no better business than my own could an
honest citizen of Rotterdam either desire or deserve. Credit was good,
employment was never wanting, and on all hands there was no lack of
either money or good-will. But, as I was saying, we soon began to feel
the effects of liberty and long speeches, and radicalism, and all that
sort of thing. People who were formerly, the very best customers in the
world, had now not a moment of time to think of us at all. They had, so
they said, as much as they could do to read about the revolutions, and
keep up with the march of intellect and the spirit of the age. If a fire
wanted fanning, it could readily be fanned with a newspaper, and as the
government grew weaker, I have no doubt that leather and iron acquired
durability in proportion, for, in a very short time, there was not a
pair of bellows in all Rotterdam that ever stood in need of a stitch or
required the assistance of a hammer. This was a state of things not
to be endured. I soon grew as poor as a rat, and, having a wife and
children to provide for, my burdens at length became intolerable, and I
spent hour after hour in reflecting upon the most convenient method of
putting an end to my life. Duns, in the meantime, left me little leisure
for contemplation. My house was literally besieged from morning till
night, so that I began to rave, and foam, and fret like a caged
tiger against the bars of his enclosure. There were three fellows in
particular who worried me beyond endurance, keeping watch continually
about my door, and threatening me with the law. Upon these three I
internally vowed the bitterest revenge, if ever I should be so happy as
to get them within my clutches; and I believe nothing in the world but
the pleasure of this anticipation prevented me from putting my plan
of suicide into immediate execution, by blowing my brains out with a
blunderbuss. I thought it best, however, to dissemble my wrath, and to
treat them with promises and fair words, until, by some good turn of
fate, an opportunity of vengeance should be afforded me.

"One day, having given my creditors the slip, and feeling more than
usually dejected, I continued for a long time to wander about the most
obscure streets without object whatever, until at length I chanced to
stumble against the corner of a bookseller's stall. Seeing a chair close
at hand, for the use of customers, I threw myself doggedly into it,
and, hardly knowing why, opened the pages of the first volume which
came within my reach. It proved to be a small pamphlet treatise on
Speculative Astronomy, written either by Professor Encke of Berlin or
by a Frenchman of somewhat similar name. I had some little tincture of
information on matters of this nature, and soon became more and more
absorbed in the contents of the book, reading it actually through twice
before I awoke to a recollection of what was passing around me. By this
time it began to grow dark, and I directed my steps toward home. But
the treatise had made an indelible impression on my mind, and, as I
sauntered along the dusky streets, I revolved carefully over in my
memory the wild and sometimes unintelligible reasonings of the writer.
There are some particular passages which affected my imagination in a
powerful and extraordinary manner. The longer I meditated upon these
the more intense grew the interest which had been excited within me.
The limited nature of my education in general, and more especially my
ignorance on subjects connected with natural philosophy, so far from
rendering me diffident of my own ability to comprehend what I had read,
or inducing me to mistrust the many vague notions which had arisen in
consequence, merely served as a farther stimulus to imagination; and I
was vain enough, or perhaps reasonable enough, to doubt whether
those crude ideas which, arising in ill-regulated minds, have all the
appearance, may not often in effect possess all the force, the reality,
and other inherent properties, of instinct or intuition; whether, to
proceed a step farther, profundity itself might not, in matters of a
purely speculative nature, be detected as a legitimate source of falsity
and error. In other words, I believed, and still do believe, that truth,
is frequently of its own essence, superficial, and that, in many cases,
the depth lies more in the abysses where we seek her, than in the actual
situations wherein she may be found. Nature herself seemed to afford
me corroboration of these ideas. In the contemplation of the heavenly
bodies it struck me forcibly that I could not distinguish a star with
nearly as much precision, when I gazed on it with earnest, direct and
undeviating attention, as when I suffered my eye only to glance in
its vicinity alone. I was not, of course, at that time aware that this
apparent paradox was occasioned by the center of the visual area being
less susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the exterior
portions of the retina. This knowledge, and some of another kind, came
afterwards in the course of an eventful five years, during which I
have dropped the prejudices of my former humble situation in life, and
forgotten the bellows-mender in far different occupations. But at the
epoch of which I speak, the analogy which a casual observation of a star
offered to the conclusions I had already drawn, struck me with the force
of positive conformation, and I then finally made up my mind to the
course which I afterwards pursued.

"It was late when I reached home, and I went immediately to bed. My
mind, however, was too much occupied to sleep, and I lay the whole night
buried in meditation. Arising early in the morning, and contriving
again to escape the vigilance of my creditors, I repaired eagerly to the
bookseller's stall, and laid out what little ready money I possessed,
in the purchase of some volumes of Mechanics and Practical Astronomy.
Having arrived at home safely with these, I devoted every spare moment
to their perusal, and soon made such proficiency in studies of this
nature as I thought sufficient for the execution of my plan. In the
intervals of this period, I made every endeavor to conciliate the
three creditors who had given me so much annoyance. In this I finally
succeeded--partly by selling enough of my household furniture to satisfy
a moiety of their claim, and partly by a promise of paying the balance
upon completion of a little project which I told them I had in view, and
for assistance in which I solicited their services. By these means--for
they were ignorant men--I found little difficulty in gaining them over
to my purpose.

"Matters being thus arranged, I contrived, by the aid of my wife and
with the greatest secrecy and caution, to dispose of what property I had
remaining, and to borrow, in small sums, under various pretences,
and without paying any attention to my future means of repayment, no
inconsiderable quantity of ready money. With the means thus accruing I
proceeded to procure at intervals, cambric muslin, very fine, in pieces
of twelve yards each; twine; a lot of the varnish of caoutchouc; a
large and deep basket of wicker-work, made to order; and several other
articles necessary in the construction and equipment of a balloon of
extraordinary dimensions. This I directed my wife to make up as soon as
possible, and gave her all requisite information as to the particular
method of proceeding. In the meantime I worked up the twine into
a net-work of sufficient dimensions; rigged it with a hoop and the
necessary cords; bought a quadrant, a compass, a spy-glass, a common
barometer with some important modifications, and two astronomical
instruments not so generally known. I then took opportunities of
conveying by night, to a retired situation east of Rotterdam, five
iron-bound casks, to contain about fifty gallons each, and one of a
larger size; six tinned ware tubes, three inches in diameter, properly
shaped, and ten feet in length; a quantity of a particular metallic
substance, or semi-metal, which I shall not name, and a dozen demijohns
of a very common acid. The gas to be formed from these latter materials
is a gas never yet generated by any other person than myself--or at
least never applied to any similar purpose. The secret I would make no
difficulty in disclosing, but that it of right belongs to a citizen of
Nantz, in France, by whom it was conditionally communicated to myself.
The same individual submitted to me, without being at all aware of my
intentions, a method of constructing balloons from the membrane of a
certain animal, through which substance any escape of gas was nearly an
impossibility. I found it, however, altogether too expensive, and was
not sure, upon the whole, whether cambric muslin with a coating of
gum caoutchouc, was not equally as good. I mention this circumstance,
because I think it probable that hereafter the individual in question
may attempt a balloon ascension with the novel gas and material I have
spoken of, and I do not wish to deprive him of the honor of a very
singular invention.

"On the spot which I intended each of the smaller casks to occupy
respectively during the inflation of the balloon, I privately dug a hole
two feet deep; the holes forming in this manner a circle twenty-five
feet in diameter. In the centre of this circle, being the station
designed for the large cask, I also dug a hole three feet in depth. In
each of the five smaller holes, I deposited a canister containing
fifty pounds, and in the larger one a keg holding one hundred and fifty
pounds, of cannon powder. These--the keg and canisters--I connected in
a proper manner with covered trains; and having let into one of the
canisters the end of about four feet of slow match, I covered up the
hole, and placed the cask over it, leaving the other end of the match
protruding about an inch, and barely visible beyond the cask. I then
filled up the remaining holes, and placed the barrels over them in their
destined situation.

"Besides the articles above enumerated, I conveyed to the depot, and
there secreted, one of M. Grimm's improvements upon the apparatus for
condensation of the atmospheric air. I found this machine, however,
to require considerable alteration before it could be adapted to the
purposes to which I intended making it applicable. But, with severe
labor and unremitting perseverance, I at length met with entire success
in all my preparations. My balloon was soon completed. It would contain
more than forty thousand cubic feet of gas; would take me up easily, I
calculated, with all my implements, and, if I managed rightly, with
one hundred and seventy-five pounds of ballast into the bargain. It
had received three coats of varnish, and I found the cambric muslin to
answer all the purposes of silk itself, quite as strong and a good deal
less expensive.

"Everything being now ready, I exacted from my wife an oath of secrecy
in relation to all my actions from the day of my first visit to the
bookseller's stall; and promising, on my part, to return as soon as
circumstances would permit, I gave her what little money I had left,
and bade her farewell. Indeed I had no fear on her account. She was
what people call a notable woman, and could manage matters in the world
without my assistance. I believe, to tell the truth, she always looked
upon me as an idle boy, a mere make-weight, good for nothing but
building castles in the air, and was rather glad to get rid of me.
It was a dark night when I bade her good-bye, and taking with me, as
aides-de-camp, the three creditors who had given me so much trouble,
we carried the balloon, with the car and accoutrements, by a roundabout
way, to the station where the other articles were deposited. We there
found them all unmolested, and I proceeded immediately to business.

"It was the first of April. The night, as I said before, was dark; there
was not a star to be seen; and a drizzling rain, falling at intervals,
rendered us very uncomfortable. But my chief anxiety was concerning
the balloon, which, in spite of the varnish with which it was defended,
began to grow rather heavy with the moisture; the powder also was liable
to damage. I therefore kept my three duns working with great diligence,
pounding down ice around the central cask, and stirring the acid in the
others. They did not cease, however, importuning me with questions as
to what I intended to do with all this apparatus, and expressed much
dissatisfaction at the terrible labor I made them undergo. They could
not perceive, so they said, what good was likely to result from
their getting wet to the skin, merely to take a part in such horrible
incantations. I began to get uneasy, and worked away with all my might,
for I verily believe the idiots supposed that I had entered into a
compact with the devil, and that, in short, what I was now doing was
nothing better than it should be. I was, therefore, in great fear of
their leaving me altogether. I contrived, however, to pacify them by
promises of payment of all scores in full, as soon as I could bring
the present business to a termination. To these speeches they gave, of
course, their own interpretation; fancying, no doubt, that at all events
I should come into possession of vast quantities of ready money; and
provided I paid them all I owed, and a trifle more, in consideration of
their services, I dare say they cared very little what became of either
my soul or my carcass.

"In about four hours and a half I found the balloon sufficiently
inflated. I attached the car, therefore, and put all my implements in
it--not forgetting the condensing apparatus, a copious supply of water,
and a large quantity of provisions, such as pemmican, in which much
nutriment is contained in comparatively little bulk. I also secured in
the car a pair of pigeons and a cat. It was now nearly daybreak, and I
thought it high time to take my departure. Dropping a lighted cigar on
the ground, as if by accident, I took the opportunity, in stooping to
pick it up, of igniting privately the piece of slow match, whose end,
as I said before, protruded a very little beyond the lower rim of one of
the smaller casks. This manoeuvre was totally unperceived on the part of
the three duns; and, jumping into the car, I immediately cut the single
cord which held me to the earth, and was pleased to find that I shot
upward, carrying with all ease one hundred and seventy-five pounds of
leaden ballast, and able to have carried up as many more.

"Scarcely, however, had I attained the height of fifty yards, when,
roaring and rumbling up after me in the most horrible and tumultuous
manner, came so dense a hurricane of fire, and smoke, and sulphur, and
legs and arms, and gravel, and burning wood, and blazing metal, that
my very heart sunk within me, and I fell down in the bottom of the car,
trembling with unmitigated terror. Indeed, I now perceived that I had
entirely overdone the business, and that the main consequences of the
shock were yet to be experienced. Accordingly, in less than a second,
I felt all the blood in my body rushing to my temples, and immediately
thereupon, a concussion, which I shall never forget, burst abruptly
through the night and seemed to rip the very firmament asunder. When
I afterward had time for reflection, I did not fail to attribute the
extreme violence of the explosion, as regarded myself, to its proper
cause--my situation directly above it, and in the line of its greatest
power. But at the time, I thought only of preserving my life. The
balloon at first collapsed, then furiously expanded, then whirled round
and round with horrible velocity, and finally, reeling and staggering
like a drunken man, hurled me with great force over the rim of the car,
and left me dangling, at a terrific height, with my head downward, and
my face outwards, by a piece of slender cord about three feet in
length, which hung accidentally through a crevice near the bottom of
the wicker-work, and in which, as I fell, my left foot became most
providentially entangled. It is impossible--utterly impossible--to form
any adequate idea of the horror of my situation. I gasped convulsively
for breath--a shudder resembling a fit of the ague agitated every nerve
and muscle of my frame--I felt my eyes starting from their sockets--a
horrible nausea overwhelmed me--and at length I fainted away.

"How long I remained in this state it is impossible to say. It must,
however, have been no inconsiderable time, for when I partially
recovered the sense of existence, I found the day breaking, the balloon
at a prodigious height over a wilderness of ocean, and not a trace
of land to be discovered far and wide within the limits of the vast
horizon. My sensations, however, upon thus recovering, were by no means
so rife with agony as might have been anticipated. Indeed, there was
much of incipient madness in the calm survey which I began to take of my
situation. I drew up to my eyes each of my hands, one after the other,
and wondered what occurrence could have given rise to the swelling of
the veins, and the horrible blackness of the fingernails. I afterward
carefully examined my head, shaking it repeatedly, and feeling it with
minute attention, until I succeeded in satisfying myself that it was
not, as I had more than half suspected, larger than my balloon. Then,
in a knowing manner, I felt in both my breeches pockets, and, missing
therefrom a set of tablets and a toothpick case, endeavored to account
for their disappearance, and not being able to do so, felt inexpressibly
chagrined. It now occurred to me that I suffered great uneasiness in the
joint of my left ankle, and a dim consciousness of my situation began to
glimmer through my mind. But, strange to say! I was neither astonished
nor horror-stricken. If I felt any emotion at all, it was a kind of
chuckling satisfaction at the cleverness I was about to display in
extricating myself from this dilemma; and I never, for a moment, looked
upon my ultimate safety as a question susceptible of doubt. For a few
minutes I remained wrapped in the profoundest meditation. I have a
distinct recollection of frequently compressing my lips, putting
my forefinger to the side of my nose, and making use of other
gesticulations and grimaces common to men who, at ease in their
arm-chairs, meditate upon matters of intricacy or importance. Having,
as I thought, sufficiently collected my ideas, I now, with great caution
and deliberation, put my hands behind my back, and unfastened the large
iron buckle which belonged to the waistband of my inexpressibles. This
buckle had three teeth, which, being somewhat rusty, turned with great
difficulty on their axis. I brought them, however, after some trouble,
at right angles to the body of the buckle, and was glad to find them
remain firm in that position. Holding the instrument thus obtained
within my teeth, I now proceeded to untie the knot of my cravat. I had
to rest several times before I could accomplish this manoeuvre, but it
was at length accomplished. To one end of the cravat I then made fast
the buckle, and the other end I tied, for greater security, tightly
around my wrist. Drawing now my body upwards, with a prodigious exertion
of muscular force, I succeeded, at the very first trial, in throwing
the buckle over the car, and entangling it, as I had anticipated, in the
circular rim of the wicker-work.

"My body was now inclined towards the side of the car, at an angle
of about forty-five degrees; but it must not be understood that I was
therefore only forty-five degrees below the perpendicular. So far from
it, I still lay nearly level with the plane of the horizon; for the
change of situation which I had acquired, had forced the bottom of the
car considerably outwards from my position, which was accordingly one
of the most imminent and deadly peril. It should be remembered, however,
that when I fell in the first instance, from the car, if I had fallen
with my face turned toward the balloon, instead of turned outwardly from
it, as it actually was; or if, in the second place, the cord by which
I was suspended had chanced to hang over the upper edge, instead of
through a crevice near the bottom of the car,--I say it may be readily
conceived that, in either of these supposed cases, I should have been
unable to accomplish even as much as I had now accomplished, and the
wonderful adventures of Hans Pfaall would have been utterly lost to
posterity, I had therefore every reason to be grateful; although, in
point of fact, I was still too stupid to be anything at all, and hung
for, perhaps, a quarter of an hour in that extraordinary manner, without
making the slightest farther exertion whatsoever, and in a singularly
tranquil state of idiotic enjoyment. But this feeling did not fail to
die rapidly away, and thereunto succeeded horror, and dismay, and a
chilling sense of utter helplessness and ruin. In fact, the blood so
long accumulating in the vessels of my head and throat, and which had
hitherto buoyed up my spirits with madness and delirium, had now begun
to retire within their proper channels, and the distinctness which was
thus added to my perception of the danger, merely served to deprive me
of the self-possession and courage to encounter it. But this weakness
was, luckily for me, of no very long duration. In good time came to my
rescue the spirit of despair, and, with frantic cries and struggles, I
jerked my way bodily upwards, till at length, clutching with a vise-like
grip the long-desired rim, I writhed my person over it, and fell
headlong and shuddering within the car.

"It was not until some time afterward that I recovered myself
sufficiently to attend to the ordinary cares of the balloon. I then,
however, examined it with attention, and found it, to my great relief,
uninjured. My implements were all safe, and, fortunately, I had lost
neither ballast nor provisions. Indeed, I had so well secured them in
their places, that such an accident was entirely out of the question.
Looking at my watch, I found it six o'clock. I was still rapidly
ascending, and my barometer gave a present altitude of three and
three-quarter miles. Immediately beneath me in the ocean, lay a small
black object, slightly oblong in shape, seemingly about the size, and
in every way bearing a great resemblance to one of those childish
toys called a domino. Bringing my telescope to bear upon it, I plainly
discerned it to be a British ninety four-gun ship, close-hauled, and
pitching heavily in the sea with her head to the W.S.W. Besides this
ship, I saw nothing but the ocean and the sky, and the sun, which had
long arisen.

"It is now high time that I should explain to your Excellencies the
object of my perilous voyage. Your Excellencies will bear in mind that
distressed circumstances in Rotterdam had at length driven me to the
resolution of committing suicide. It was not, however, that to life
itself I had any, positive disgust, but that I was harassed beyond
endurance by the adventitious miseries attending my situation. In this
state of mind, wishing to live, yet wearied with life, the treatise at
the stall of the bookseller opened a resource to my imagination. I then
finally made up my mind. I determined to depart, yet live--to leave the
world, yet continue to exist--in short, to drop enigmas, I resolved, let
what would ensue, to force a passage, if I could, to the moon. Now, lest
I should be supposed more of a madman than I actually am, I will detail,
as well as I am able, the considerations which led me to believe that
an achievement of this nature, although without doubt difficult, and
incontestably full of danger, was not absolutely, to a bold spirit,
beyond the confines of the possible.

"The moon's actual distance from the earth was the first thing to be
attended to. Now, the mean or average interval between the centres of
the two planets is 59.9643 of the earth's equatorial radii, or only
about 237,000 miles. I say the mean or average interval. But it must
be borne in mind that the form of the moon's orbit being an ellipse of
eccentricity amounting to no less than 0.05484 of the major semi-axis of
the ellipse itself, and the earth's centre being situated in its focus,
if I could, in any manner, contrive to meet the moon, as it were, in its
perigee, the above mentioned distance would be materially diminished.
But, to say nothing at present of this possibility, it was very certain
that, at all events, from the 237,000 miles I would have to deduct the
radius of the earth, say 4,000, and the radius of the moon, say 1080,
in all 5,080, leaving an actual interval to be traversed, under average
circumstances, of 231,920 miles. Now this, I reflected, was no
very extraordinary distance. Travelling on land has been repeatedly
accomplished at the rate of thirty miles per hour, and indeed a much
greater speed may be anticipated. But even at this velocity, it would
take me no more than 322 days to reach the surface of the moon. There
were, however, many particulars inducing me to believe that my average
rate of travelling might possibly very much exceed that of thirty miles
per hour, and, as these considerations did not fail to make a deep
impression upon my mind, I will mention them more fully hereafter.

"The next point to be regarded was a matter of far greater importance.
From indications afforded by the barometer, we find that, in ascensions
from the surface of the earth we have, at the height of 1,000 feet, left
below us about one-thirtieth of the entire mass of atmospheric air, that
at 10,600 we have ascended through nearly one-third; and that at 18,000,
which is not far from the elevation of Cotopaxi, we have surmounted
one-half the material, or, at all events, one-half the ponderable,
body of air incumbent upon our globe. It is also calculated that at an
altitude not exceeding the hundredth part of the earth's diameter--that
is, not exceeding eighty miles--the rarefaction would be so excessive
that animal life could in no manner be sustained, and, moreover, that
the most delicate means we possess of ascertaining the presence of the
atmosphere would be inadequate to assure us of its existence. But I
did not fail to perceive that these latter calculations are founded
altogether on our experimental knowledge of the properties of air, and
the mechanical laws regulating its dilation and compression, in what may
be called, comparatively speaking, the immediate vicinity of the earth
itself; and, at the same time, it is taken for granted that animal
life is and must be essentially incapable of modification at any given
unattainable distance from the surface. Now, all such reasoning and from
such data must, of course, be simply analogical. The greatest height
ever reached by man was that of 25,000 feet, attained in the aeronautic
expedition of Messieurs Gay-Lussac and Biot. This is a moderate
altitude, even when compared with the eighty miles in question; and I
could not help thinking that the subject admitted room for doubt and
great latitude for speculation.

"But, in point of fact, an ascension being made to any given altitude,
the ponderable quantity of air surmounted in any farther ascension is
by no means in proportion to the additional height ascended (as may
be plainly seen from what has been stated before), but in a ratio
constantly decreasing. It is therefore evident that, ascend as high as
we may, we cannot, literally speaking, arrive at a limit beyond which
no atmosphere is to be found. It must exist, I argued; although it may
exist in a state of infinite rarefaction.

"On the other hand, I was aware that arguments have not been wanting
to prove the existence of a real and definite limit to the atmosphere,
beyond which there is absolutely no air whatsoever. But a circumstance
which has been left out of view by those who contend for such a limit
seemed to me, although no positive refutation of their creed, still
a point worthy very serious investigation. On comparing the intervals
between the successive arrivals of Encke's comet at its perihelion,
after giving credit, in the most exact manner, for all the disturbances
due to the attractions of the planets, it appears that the periods are
gradually diminishing; that is to say, the major axis of the comet's
ellipse is growing shorter, in a slow but perfectly regular decrease.
Now, this is precisely what ought to be the case, if we suppose a
resistance experienced from the comet from an extremely rare ethereal
medium pervading the regions of its orbit. For it is evident that such
a medium must, in retarding the comet's velocity, increase its
centripetal, by weakening its centrifugal force. In other words, the
sun's attraction would be constantly attaining greater power, and the
comet would be drawn nearer at every revolution. Indeed, there is no
other way of accounting for the variation in question. But again. The
real diameter of the same comet's nebulosity is observed to contract
rapidly as it approaches the sun, and dilate with equal rapidity in its
departure towards its aphelion. Was I not justifiable in supposing with
M. Valz, that this apparent condensation of volume has its origin in
the compression of the same ethereal medium I have spoken of before,
and which is only denser in proportion to its solar vicinity? The
lenticular-shaped phenomenon, also called the zodiacal light, was a
matter worthy of attention. This radiance, so apparent in the tropics,
and which cannot be mistaken for any meteoric lustre, extends from the
horizon obliquely upward, and follows generally the direction of the
sun's equator. It appeared to me evidently in the nature of a rare
atmosphere extending from the sun outward, beyond the orbit of Venus at
least, and I believed indefinitely farther.(*2) Indeed, this medium I
could not suppose confined to the path of the comet's ellipse, or to
the immediate neighborhood of the sun. It was easy, on the contrary,
to imagine it pervading the entire regions of our planetary system,
condensed into what we call atmosphere at the planets themselves, and
perhaps at some of them modified by considerations, so to speak, purely
geological.

"Having adopted this view of the subject, I had little further
hesitation. Granting that on my passage I should meet with atmosphere
essentially the same as at the surface of the earth, I conceived that,
by means of the very ingenious apparatus of M. Grimm, I should readily
be enabled to condense it in sufficient quantity for the purposes of
respiration. This would remove the chief obstacle in a journey to the
moon. I had indeed spent some money and great labor in adapting the
apparatus to the object intended, and confidently looked forward to its
successful application, if I could manage to complete the voyage within
any reasonable period. This brings me back to the rate at which it might
be possible to travel.

"It is true that balloons, in the first stage of their ascensions from
the earth, are known to rise with a velocity comparatively moderate.
Now, the power of elevation lies altogether in the superior lightness of
the gas in the balloon compared with the atmospheric air; and, at
first sight, it does not appear probable that, as the balloon acquires
altitude, and consequently arrives successively in atmospheric strata
of densities rapidly diminishing--I say, it does not appear at all
reasonable that, in this its progress upwards, the original velocity
should be accelerated. On the other hand, I was not aware that, in any
recorded ascension, a diminution was apparent in the absolute rate
of ascent; although such should have been the case, if on account
of nothing else, on account of the escape of gas through balloons
ill-constructed, and varnished with no better material than the ordinary
varnish. It seemed, therefore, that the effect of such escape was only
sufficient to counterbalance the effect of some accelerating power. I
now considered that, provided in my passage I found the medium I
had imagined, and provided that it should prove to be actually
and essentially what we denominate atmospheric air, it could make
comparatively little difference at what extreme state of rarefaction
I should discover it--that is to say, in regard to my power of
ascending--for the gas in the balloon would not only be itself subject
to rarefaction partially similar (in proportion to the occurrence of
which, I could suffer an escape of so much as would be requisite to
prevent explosion), but, being what it was, would, at all events,
continue specifically lighter than any compound whatever of mere
nitrogen and oxygen. In the meantime, the force of gravitation would be
constantly diminishing, in proportion to the squares of the distances,
and thus, with a velocity prodigiously accelerating, I should at
length arrive in those distant regions where the force of the earth's
attraction would be superseded by that of the moon. In accordance with
these ideas, I did not think it worth while to encumber myself with more
provisions than would be sufficient for a period of forty days.

"There was still, however, another difficulty, which occasioned me some
little disquietude. It has been observed, that, in balloon ascensions to
any considerable height, besides the pain attending respiration, great
uneasiness is experienced about the head and body, often accompanied
with bleeding at the nose, and other symptoms of an alarming kind,
and growing more and more inconvenient in proportion to the altitude
attained.(*3) This was a reflection of a nature somewhat startling. Was
it not probable that these symptoms would increase indefinitely, or at
least until terminated by death itself? I finally thought not. Their
origin was to be looked for in the progressive removal of the customary
atmospheric pressure upon the surface of the body, and consequent
distention of the superficial blood-vessels--not in any positive
disorganization of the animal system, as in the case of difficulty in
breathing, where the atmospheric density is chemically insufficient
for the due renovation of blood in a ventricle of the heart. Unless for
default of this renovation, I could see no reason, therefore, why
life could not be sustained even in a vacuum; for the expansion and
compression of chest, commonly called breathing, is action purely
muscular, and the cause, not the effect, of respiration. In a word,
I conceived that, as the body should become habituated to the want
of atmospheric pressure, the sensations of pain would gradually
diminish--and to endure them while they continued, I relied with
confidence upon the iron hardihood of my constitution.

"Thus, may it please your Excellencies, I have detailed some, though by
no means all, the considerations which led me to form the project of
a lunar voyage. I shall now proceed to lay before you the result of an
attempt so apparently audacious in conception, and, at all events, so
utterly unparalleled in the annals of mankind.

"Having attained the altitude before mentioned, that is to say three
miles and three-quarters, I threw out from the car a quantity of
feathers, and found that I still ascended with sufficient rapidity;
there was, therefore, no necessity for discharging any ballast. I was
glad of this, for I wished to retain with me as much weight as I could
carry, for reasons which will be explained in the sequel. I as yet
suffered no bodily inconvenience, breathing with great freedom, and
feeling no pain whatever in the head. The cat was lying very demurely
upon my coat, which I had taken off, and eyeing the pigeons with an air
of nonchalance. These latter being tied by the leg, to prevent their
escape, were busily employed in picking up some grains of rice scattered
for them in the bottom of the car.

"At twenty minutes past six o'clock, the barometer showed an elevation
of 26,400 feet, or five miles to a fraction. The prospect seemed
unbounded. Indeed, it is very easily calculated by means of spherical
geometry, what a great extent of the earth's area I beheld. The convex
surface of any segment of a sphere is, to the entire surface of the
sphere itself, as the versed sine of the segment to the diameter of the
sphere. Now, in my case, the versed sine--that is to say, the thickness
of the segment beneath me--was about equal to my elevation, or the
elevation of the point of sight above the surface. 'As five miles, then,
to eight thousand,' would express the proportion of the earth's area
seen by me. In other words, I beheld as much as a sixteen-hundredth
part of the whole surface of the globe. The sea appeared unruffled as a
mirror, although, by means of the spy-glass, I could perceive it to be
in a state of violent agitation. The ship was no longer visible, having
drifted away, apparently to the eastward. I now began to experience, at
intervals, severe pain in the head, especially about the ears--still,
however, breathing with tolerable freedom. The cat and pigeons seemed to
suffer no inconvenience whatsoever.

"At twenty minutes before seven, the balloon entered a long series of
dense cloud, which put me to great trouble, by damaging my condensing
apparatus and wetting me to the skin. This was, to be sure, a singular
recontre, for I had not believed it possible that a cloud of this nature
could be sustained at so great an elevation. I thought it best, however,
to throw out two five-pound pieces of ballast, reserving still a weight
of one hundred and sixty-five pounds. Upon so doing, I soon rose above
the difficulty, and perceived immediately, that I had obtained a great
increase in my rate of ascent. In a few seconds after my leaving the
cloud, a flash of vivid lightning shot from one end of it to the other,
and caused it to kindle up, throughout its vast extent, like a mass of
ignited and glowing charcoal. This, it must be remembered, was in the
broad light of day. No fancy may picture the sublimity which might have
been exhibited by a similar phenomenon taking place amid the darkness of
the night. Hell itself might have been found a fitting image. Even as
it was, my hair stood on end, while I gazed afar down within the yawning
abysses, letting imagination descend, as it were, and stalk about in the
strange vaulted halls, and ruddy gulfs, and red ghastly chasms of the
hideous and unfathomable fire. I had indeed made a narrow escape. Had
the balloon remained a very short while longer within the cloud--that
is to say--had not the inconvenience of getting wet, determined me to
discharge the ballast, inevitable ruin would have been the consequence.
Such perils, although little considered, are perhaps the greatest which
must be encountered in balloons. I had by this time, however, attained
too great an elevation to be any longer uneasy on this head.

"I was now rising rapidly, and by seven o'clock the barometer indicated
an altitude of no less than nine miles and a half. I began to find great
difficulty in drawing my breath. My head, too, was excessively painful;
and, having felt for some time a moisture about my cheeks, I at length
discovered it to be blood, which was oozing quite fast from the drums of
my ears. My eyes, also, gave me great uneasiness. Upon passing the
hand over them they seemed to have protruded from their sockets in no
inconsiderable degree; and all objects in the car, and even the balloon
itself, appeared distorted to my vision. These symptoms were more than
I had expected, and occasioned me some alarm. At this juncture, very
imprudently, and without consideration, I threw out from the car three
five-pound pieces of ballast. The accelerated rate of ascent thus
obtained, carried me too rapidly, and without sufficient gradation, into
a highly rarefied stratum of the atmosphere, and the result had nearly
proved fatal to my expedition and to myself. I was suddenly seized with
a spasm which lasted for more than five minutes, and even when this, in
a measure, ceased, I could catch my breath only at long intervals, and
in a gasping manner--bleeding all the while copiously at the nose and
ears, and even slightly at the eyes. The pigeons appeared distressed
in the extreme, and struggled to escape; while the cat mewed piteously,
and, with her tongue hanging out of her mouth, staggered to and fro in
the car as if under the influence of poison. I now too late discovered
the great rashness of which I had been guilty in discharging the
ballast, and my agitation was excessive. I anticipated nothing less than
death, and death in a few minutes. The physical suffering I underwent
contributed also to render me nearly incapable of making any exertion
for the preservation of my life. I had, indeed, little power of
reflection left, and the violence of the pain in my head seemed to be
greatly on the increase. Thus I found that my senses would shortly give
way altogether, and I had already clutched one of the valve ropes with
the view of attempting a descent, when the recollection of the trick I
had played the three creditors, and the possible consequences to myself,
should I return, operated to deter me for the moment. I lay down in the
bottom of the car, and endeavored to collect my faculties. In this I
so far succeeded as to determine upon the experiment of losing blood.
Having no lancet, however, I was constrained to perform the operation in
the best manner I was able, and finally succeeded in opening a vein
in my right arm, with the blade of my penknife. The blood had hardly
commenced flowing when I experienced a sensible relief, and by the time
I had lost about half a moderate basin full, most of the worst symptoms
had abandoned me entirely. I nevertheless did not think it expedient to
attempt getting on my feet immediately; but, having tied up my arm as
well as I could, I lay still for about a quarter of an hour. At the end
of this time I arose, and found myself freer from absolute pain of any
kind than I had been during the last hour and a quarter of my ascension.
The difficulty of breathing, however, was diminished in a very slight
degree, and I found that it would soon be positively necessary to make
use of my condenser. In the meantime, looking toward the cat, who was
again snugly stowed away upon my coat, I discovered to my infinite
surprise, that she had taken the opportunity of my indisposition to
bring into light a litter of three little kittens. This was an addition
to the number of passengers on my part altogether unexpected; but I was
pleased at the occurrence. It would afford me a chance of bringing to a
kind of test the truth of a surmise, which, more than anything else,
had influenced me in attempting this ascension. I had imagined that the
habitual endurance of the atmospheric pressure at the surface of
the earth was the cause, or nearly so, of the pain attending animal
existence at a distance above the surface. Should the kittens be found
to suffer uneasiness in an equal degree with their mother, I must
consider my theory in fault, but a failure to do so I should look upon
as a strong confirmation of my idea.

"By eight o'clock I had actually attained an elevation of seventeen
miles above the surface of the earth. Thus it seemed to me evident that
my rate of ascent was not only on the increase, but that the progression
would have been apparent in a slight degree even had I not discharged
the ballast which I did. The pains in my head and ears returned, at
intervals, with violence, and I still continued to bleed occasionally at
the nose; but, upon the whole, I suffered much less than might have
been expected. I breathed, however, at every moment, with more and
more difficulty, and each inhalation was attended with a troublesome
spasmodic action of the chest. I now unpacked the condensing apparatus,
and got it ready for immediate use.

"The view of the earth, at this period of my ascension, was beautiful
indeed. To the westward, the northward, and the southward, as far as I
could see, lay a boundless sheet of apparently unruffled ocean, which
every moment gained a deeper and a deeper tint of blue and began already
to assume a slight appearance of convexity. At a vast distance to the
eastward, although perfectly discernible, extended the islands of Great
Britain, the entire Atlantic coasts of France and Spain, with a small
portion of the northern part of the continent of Africa. Of individual
edifices not a trace could be discovered, and the proudest cities of
mankind had utterly faded away from the face of the earth. From the rock
of Gibraltar, now dwindled into a dim speck, the dark Mediterranean sea,
dotted with shining islands as the heaven is dotted with stars, spread
itself out to the eastward as far as my vision extended, until its
entire mass of waters seemed at length to tumble headlong over the abyss
of the horizon, and I found myself listening on tiptoe for the echoes
of the mighty cataract. Overhead, the sky was of a jetty black, and the
stars were brilliantly visible.

"The pigeons about this time seeming to undergo much suffering, I
determined upon giving them their liberty. I first untied one of them,
a beautiful gray-mottled pigeon, and placed him upon the rim of the
wicker-work. He appeared extremely uneasy, looking anxiously around him,
fluttering his wings, and making a loud cooing noise, but could not be
persuaded to trust himself from off the car. I took him up at last,
and threw him to about half a dozen yards from the balloon. He made,
however, no attempt to descend as I had expected, but struggled with
great vehemence to get back, uttering at the same time very shrill and
piercing cries. He at length succeeded in regaining his former station
on the rim, but had hardly done so when his head dropped upon his
breast, and he fell dead within the car. The other one did not prove so
unfortunate. To prevent his following the example of his companion, and
accomplishing a return, I threw him downward with all my force, and was
pleased to find him continue his descent, with great velocity, making
use of his wings with ease, and in a perfectly natural manner. In a very
short time he was out of sight, and I have no doubt he reached home in
safety. Puss, who seemed in a great measure recovered from her illness,
now made a hearty meal of the dead bird and then went to sleep with much
apparent satisfaction. Her kittens were quite lively, and so far evinced
not the slightest sign of any uneasiness whatever.

"At a quarter-past eight, being no longer able to draw breath without
the most intolerable pain, I proceeded forthwith to adjust around
the car the apparatus belonging to the condenser. This apparatus will
require some little explanation, and your Excellencies will please to
bear in mind that my object, in the first place, was to surround myself
and cat entirely with a barricade against the highly rarefied atmosphere
in which I was existing, with the intention of introducing within this
barricade, by means of my condenser, a quantity of this same atmosphere
sufficiently condensed for the purposes of respiration. With this object
in view I had prepared a very strong perfectly air-tight, but flexible
gum-elastic bag. In this bag, which was of sufficient dimensions, the
entire car was in a manner placed. That is to say, it (the bag) was
drawn over the whole bottom of the car, up its sides, and so on, along
the outside of the ropes, to the upper rim or hoop where the net-work
is attached. Having pulled the bag up in this way, and formed a complete
enclosure on all sides, and at bottom, it was now necessary to fasten
up its top or mouth, by passing its material over the hoop of the
net-work--in other words, between the net-work and the hoop. But if the
net-work were separated from the hoop to admit this passage, what was
to sustain the car in the meantime? Now the net-work was not permanently
fastened to the hoop, but attached by a series of running loops or
nooses. I therefore undid only a few of these loops at one time, leaving
the car suspended by the remainder. Having thus inserted a portion of
the cloth forming the upper part of the bag, I refastened the loops--not
to the hoop, for that would have been impossible, since the cloth
now intervened--but to a series of large buttons, affixed to the cloth
itself, about three feet below the mouth of the bag, the intervals
between the buttons having been made to correspond to the intervals
between the loops. This done, a few more of the loops were unfastened
from the rim, a farther portion of the cloth introduced, and the
disengaged loops then connected with their proper buttons. In this way
it was possible to insert the whole upper part of the bag between the
net-work and the hoop. It is evident that the hoop would now drop down
within the car, while the whole weight of the car itself, with all its
contents, would be held up merely by the strength of the buttons. This,
at first sight, would seem an inadequate dependence; but it was by no
means so, for the buttons were not only very strong in themselves, but
so close together that a very slight portion of the whole weight was
supported by any one of them. Indeed, had the car and contents been
three times heavier than they were, I should not have been at
all uneasy. I now raised up the hoop again within the covering of
gum-elastic, and propped it at nearly its former height by means of
three light poles prepared for the occasion. This was done, of course,
to keep the bag distended at the top, and to preserve the lower part
of the net-work in its proper situation. All that now remained was to
fasten up the mouth of the enclosure; and this was readily accomplished
by gathering the folds of the material together, and twisting them up
very tightly on the inside by means of a kind of stationary tourniquet.

"In the sides of the covering thus adjusted round the car, had been
inserted three circular panes of thick but clear glass, through which I
could see without difficulty around me in every horizontal direction.
In that portion of the cloth forming the bottom, was likewise, a fourth
window, of the same kind, and corresponding with a small aperture in the
floor of the car itself. This enabled me to see perpendicularly
down, but having found it impossible to place any similar contrivance
overhead, on account of the peculiar manner of closing up the opening
there, and the consequent wrinkles in the cloth, I could expect to see
no objects situated directly in my zenith. This, of course, was a matter
of little consequence; for had I even been able to place a window at
top, the balloon itself would have prevented my making any use of it.

"About a foot below one of the side windows was a circular opening,
eight inches in diameter, and fitted with a brass rim adapted in its
inner edge to the windings of a screw. In this rim was screwed the large
tube of the condenser, the body of the machine being, of course, within
the chamber of gum-elastic. Through this tube a quantity of the rare
atmosphere circumjacent being drawn by means of a vacuum created in the
body of the machine, was thence discharged, in a state of condensation,
to mingle with the thin air already in the chamber. This operation being
repeated several times, at length filled the chamber with atmosphere
proper for all the purposes of respiration. But in so confined a space
it would, in a short time, necessarily become foul, and unfit for use
from frequent contact with the lungs. It was then ejected by a small
valve at the bottom of the car--the dense air readily sinking into the
thinner atmosphere below. To avoid the inconvenience of making a total
vacuum at any moment within the chamber, this purification was never
accomplished all at once, but in a gradual manner--the valve being
opened only for a few seconds, then closed again, until one or two
strokes from the pump of the condenser had supplied the place of the
atmosphere ejected. For the sake of experiment I had put the cat and
kittens in a small basket, and suspended it outside the car to a button
at the bottom, close by the valve, through which I could feed them at
any moment when necessary. I did this at some little risk, and before
closing the mouth of the chamber, by reaching under the car with one of
the poles before mentioned to which a hook had been attached.

"By the time I had fully completed these arrangements and filled the
chamber as explained, it wanted only ten minutes of nine o'clock. During
the whole period of my being thus employed, I endured the most terrible
distress from difficulty of respiration, and bitterly did I repent the
negligence or rather fool-hardiness, of which I had been guilty, of
putting off to the last moment a matter of so much importance. But
having at length accomplished it, I soon began to reap the benefit of
my invention. Once again I breathed with perfect freedom and ease--and
indeed why should I not? I was also agreeably surprised to find myself,
in a great measure, relieved from the violent pains which had hitherto
tormented me. A slight headache, accompanied with a sensation of fulness
or distention about the wrists, the ankles, and the throat, was nearly
all of which I had now to complain. Thus it seemed evident that a
greater part of the uneasiness attending the removal of atmospheric
pressure had actually worn off, as I had expected, and that much of
the pain endured for the last two hours should have been attributed
altogether to the effects of a deficient respiration.

"At twenty minutes before nine o'clock--that is to say, a short time
prior to my closing up the mouth of the chamber, the mercury attained
its limit, or ran down, in the barometer, which, as I mentioned before,
was one of an extended construction. It then indicated an altitude on
my part of 132,000 feet, or five-and-twenty miles, and I consequently
surveyed at that time an extent of the earth's area amounting to no less
than the three hundred-and-twentieth part of its entire superficies.
At nine o'clock I had again lost sight of land to the eastward, but not
before I became aware that the balloon was drifting rapidly to the N.
N. W. The convexity of the ocean beneath me was very evident indeed,
although my view was often interrupted by the masses of cloud which
floated to and fro. I observed now that even the lightest vapors never
rose to more than ten miles above the level of the sea.

"At half past nine I tried the experiment of throwing out a handful of
feathers through the valve. They did not float as I had expected; but
dropped down perpendicularly, like a bullet, en masse, and with the
greatest velocity--being out of sight in a very few seconds. I did not
at first know what to make of this extraordinary phenomenon; not being
able to believe that my rate of ascent had, of a sudden, met with
so prodigious an acceleration. But it soon occurred to me that the
atmosphere was now far too rare to sustain even the feathers; that they
actually fell, as they appeared to do, with great rapidity; and that I
had been surprised by the united velocities of their descent and my own
elevation.

"By ten o'clock I found that I had very little to occupy my immediate
attention. Affairs went swimmingly, and I believed the balloon to be
going upward with a speed increasing momently although I had no longer
any means of ascertaining the progression of the increase. I suffered no
pain or uneasiness of any kind, and enjoyed better spirits than I had
at any period since my departure from Rotterdam, busying myself now in
examining the state of my various apparatus, and now in regenerating the
atmosphere within the chamber. This latter point I determined to
attend to at regular intervals of forty minutes, more on account of
the preservation of my health, than from so frequent a renovation
being absolutely necessary. In the meanwhile I could not help making
anticipations. Fancy revelled in the wild and dreamy regions of the
moon. Imagination, feeling herself for once unshackled, roamed at will
among the ever-changing wonders of a shadowy and unstable land. Now
there were hoary and time-honored forests, and craggy precipices, and
waterfalls tumbling with a loud noise into abysses without a bottom.
Then I came suddenly into still noonday solitudes, where no wind of
heaven ever intruded, and where vast meadows of poppies, and slender,
lily-looking flowers spread themselves out a weary distance, all silent
and motionless forever. Then again I journeyed far down away into
another country where it was all one dim and vague lake, with a boundary
line of clouds. And out of this melancholy water arose a forest of tall
eastern trees, like a wilderness of dreams. And I have in mind that
the shadows of the trees which fell upon the lake remained not on
the surface where they fell, but sunk slowly and steadily down, and
commingled with the waves, while from the trunks of the trees other
shadows were continually coming out, and taking the place of their
brothers thus entombed. "This then," I said thoughtfully, "is the very
reason why the waters of this lake grow blacker with age, and more
melancholy as the hours run on." But fancies such as these were not the
sole possessors of my brain. Horrors of a nature most stern and most
appalling would too frequently obtrude themselves upon my mind, and
shake the innermost depths of my soul with the bare supposition of their
possibility. Yet I would not suffer my thoughts for any length of time
to dwell upon these latter speculations, rightly judging the real and
palpable dangers of the voyage sufficient for my undivided attention.

"At five o'clock, p.m., being engaged in regenerating the atmosphere
within the chamber, I took that opportunity of observing the cat and
kittens through the valve. The cat herself appeared to suffer again very
much, and I had no hesitation in attributing her uneasiness chiefly to a
difficulty in breathing; but my experiment with the kittens had resulted
very strangely. I had expected, of course, to see them betray a sense of
pain, although in a less degree than their mother, and this would have
been sufficient to confirm my opinion concerning the habitual endurance
of atmospheric pressure. But I was not prepared to find them, upon close
examination, evidently enjoying a high degree of health, breathing with
the greatest ease and perfect regularity, and evincing not the slightest
sign of any uneasiness whatever. I could only account for all this by
extending my theory, and supposing that the highly rarefied atmosphere
around might perhaps not be, as I had taken for granted, chemically
insufficient for the purposes of life, and that a person born in such
a medium might, possibly, be unaware of any inconvenience attending its
inhalation, while, upon removal to the denser strata near the earth,
he might endure tortures of a similar nature to those I had so lately
experienced. It has since been to me a matter of deep regret that an
awkward accident, at this time, occasioned me the loss of my little
family of cats, and deprived me of the insight into this matter which a
continued experiment might have afforded. In passing my hand through
the valve, with a cup of water for the old puss, the sleeves of my shirt
became entangled in the loop which sustained the basket, and thus, in
a moment, loosened it from the bottom. Had the whole actually vanished
into air, it could not have shot from my sight in a more abrupt and
instantaneous manner. Positively, there could not have intervened the
tenth part of a second between the disengagement of the basket and its
absolute and total disappearance with all that it contained. My good
wishes followed it to the earth, but of course, I had no hope that
either cat or kittens would ever live to tell the tale of their
misfortune.

"At six o'clock, I perceived a great portion of the earth's visible area
to the eastward involved in thick shadow, which continued to advance
with great rapidity, until, at five minutes before seven, the whole
surface in view was enveloped in the darkness of night. It was not,
however, until long after this time that the rays of the setting sun
ceased to illumine the balloon; and this circumstance, although of
course fully anticipated, did not fail to give me an infinite deal
of pleasure. It was evident that, in the morning, I should behold the
rising luminary many hours at least before the citizens of Rotterdam, in
spite of their situation so much farther to the eastward, and thus, day
after day, in proportion to the height ascended, would I enjoy the light
of the sun for a longer and a longer period. I now determined to keep a
journal of my passage, reckoning the days from one to twenty-four
hours continuously, without taking into consideration the intervals of
darkness.

"At ten o'clock, feeling sleepy, I determined to lie down for the rest
of the night; but here a difficulty presented itself, which, obvious as
it may appear, had escaped my attention up to the very moment of which
I am now speaking. If I went to sleep as I proposed, how could the
atmosphere in the chamber be regenerated in the interim? To breathe
it for more than an hour, at the farthest, would be a matter of
impossibility, or, if even this term could be extended to an hour and a
quarter, the most ruinous consequences might ensue. The consideration
of this dilemma gave me no little disquietude; and it will hardly be
believed, that, after the dangers I had undergone, I should look
upon this business in so serious a light, as to give up all hope of
accomplishing my ultimate design, and finally make up my mind to the
necessity of a descent. But this hesitation was only momentary. I
reflected that man is the veriest slave of custom, and that many points
in the routine of his existence are deemed essentially important, which
are only so at all by his having rendered them habitual. It was very
certain that I could not do without sleep; but I might easily bring
myself to feel no inconvenience from being awakened at intervals of an
hour during the whole period of my repose. It would require but five
minutes at most to regenerate the atmosphere in the fullest manner, and
the only real difficulty was to contrive a method of arousing myself
at the proper moment for so doing. But this was a question which, I am
willing to confess, occasioned me no little trouble in its solution. To
be sure, I had heard of the student who, to prevent his falling asleep
over his books, held in one hand a ball of copper, the din of whose
descent into a basin of the same metal on the floor beside his chair,
served effectually to startle him up, if, at any moment, he should
be overcome with drowsiness. My own case, however, was very different
indeed, and left me no room for any similar idea; for I did not wish to
keep awake, but to be aroused from slumber at regular intervals of time.
I at length hit upon the following expedient, which, simple as it may
seem, was hailed by me, at the moment of discovery, as an invention
fully equal to that of the telescope, the steam-engine, or the art of
printing itself.

"It is necessary to premise, that the balloon, at the elevation now
attained, continued its course upward with an even and undeviating
ascent, and the car consequently followed with a steadiness so perfect
that it would have been impossible to detect in it the slightest
vacillation whatever. This circumstance favored me greatly in the
project I now determined to adopt. My supply of water had been put on
board in kegs containing five gallons each, and ranged very securely
around the interior of the car. I unfastened one of these, and taking
two ropes tied them tightly across the rim of the wicker-work from one
side to the other; placing them about a foot apart and parallel so as to
form a kind of shelf, upon which I placed the keg, and steadied it in a
horizontal position. About eight inches immediately below these ropes,
and four feet from the bottom of the car I fastened another shelf--but
made of thin plank, being the only similar piece of wood I had. Upon
this latter shelf, and exactly beneath one of the rims of the keg, a
small earthern pitcher was deposited. I now bored a hole in the end of
the keg over the pitcher, and fitted in a plug of soft wood, cut in a
tapering or conical shape. This plug I pushed in or pulled out, as might
happen, until, after a few experiments, it arrived at that exact degree
of tightness, at which the water, oozing from the hole, and falling into
the pitcher below, would fill the latter to the brim in the period
of sixty minutes. This, of course, was a matter briefly and easily
ascertained, by noticing the proportion of the pitcher filled in any
given time. Having arranged all this, the rest of the plan is obvious.
My bed was so contrived upon the floor of the car, as to bring my
head, in lying down, immediately below the mouth of the pitcher. It was
evident, that, at the expiration of an hour, the pitcher, getting full,
would be forced to run over, and to run over at the mouth, which was
somewhat lower than the rim. It was also evident, that the water thus
falling from a height of more than four feet, could not do otherwise
than fall upon my face, and that the sure consequences would be, to
waken me up instantaneously, even from the soundest slumber in the
world.

"It was fully eleven by the time I had completed these arrangements,
and I immediately betook myself to bed, with full confidence in the
efficiency of my invention. Nor in this matter was I disappointed.
Punctually every sixty minutes was I aroused by my trusty chronometer,
when, having emptied the pitcher into the bung-hole of the keg, and
performed the duties of the condenser, I retired again to bed. These
regular interruptions to my slumber caused me even less discomfort than
I had anticipated; and when I finally arose for the day, it was seven
o'clock, and the sun had attained many degrees above the line of my
horizon.

"April 3d. I found the balloon at an immense height indeed, and the
earth's apparent convexity increased in a material degree. Below me in
the ocean lay a cluster of black specks, which undoubtedly were islands.
Far away to the northward I perceived a thin, white, and exceedingly
brilliant line, or streak, on the edge of the horizon, and I had no
hesitation in supposing it to be the southern disk of the ices of the
Polar Sea. My curiosity was greatly excited, for I had hopes of passing
on much farther to the north, and might possibly, at some period, find
myself placed directly above the Pole itself. I now lamented that my
great elevation would, in this case, prevent my taking as accurate a
survey as I could wish. Much, however, might be ascertained. Nothing
else of an extraordinary nature occurred during the day. My apparatus
all continued in good order, and the balloon still ascended without any
perceptible vacillation. The cold was intense, and obliged me to wrap
up closely in an overcoat. When darkness came over the earth, I betook
myself to bed, although it was for many hours afterward broad daylight
all around my immediate situation. The water-clock was punctual in its
duty, and I slept until next morning soundly, with the exception of the
periodical interruption.

"April 4th. Arose in good health and spirits, and was astonished at the
singular change which had taken place in the appearance of the sea.
It had lost, in a great measure, the deep tint of blue it had hitherto
worn, being now of a grayish-white, and of a lustre dazzling to the eye.
The islands were no longer visible; whether they had passed down the
horizon to the southeast, or whether my increasing elevation had left
them out of sight, it is impossible to say. I was inclined, however, to
the latter opinion. The rim of ice to the northward was growing more
and more apparent. Cold by no means so intense. Nothing of importance
occurred, and I passed the day in reading, having taken care to supply
myself with books.

"April 5th. Beheld the singular phenomenon of the sun rising while
nearly the whole visible surface of the earth continued to be involved
in darkness. In time, however, the light spread itself over all, and I
again saw the line of ice to the northward. It was now very distinct,
and appeared of a much darker hue than the waters of the ocean. I was
evidently approaching it, and with great rapidity. Fancied I could
again distinguish a strip of land to the eastward, and one also to the
westward, but could not be certain. Weather moderate. Nothing of any
consequence happened during the day. Went early to bed.

"April 6th. Was surprised at finding the rim of ice at a very moderate
distance, and an immense field of the same material stretching away off
to the horizon in the north. It was evident that if the balloon held its
present course, it would soon arrive above the Frozen Ocean, and I had
now little doubt of ultimately seeing the Pole. During the whole of the
day I continued to near the ice. Toward night the limits of my horizon
very suddenly and materially increased, owing undoubtedly to the
earth's form being that of an oblate spheroid, and my arriving above the
flattened regions in the vicinity of the Arctic circle. When darkness at
length overtook me, I went to bed in great anxiety, fearing to pass over
the object of so much curiosity when I should have no opportunity of
observing it.

"April 7th. Arose early, and, to my great joy, at length beheld what
there could be no hesitation in supposing the northern Pole itself. It
was there, beyond a doubt, and immediately beneath my feet; but, alas! I
had now ascended to so vast a distance, that nothing could with accuracy
be discerned. Indeed, to judge from the progression of the numbers
indicating my various altitudes, respectively, at different periods,
between six A.M. on the second of April, and twenty minutes before nine
A.M. of the same day (at which time the barometer ran down), it might be
fairly inferred that the balloon had now, at four o'clock in the morning
of April the seventh, reached a height of not less, certainly, than
7,254 miles above the surface of the sea. This elevation may appear
immense, but the estimate upon which it is calculated gave a result in
all probability far inferior to the truth. At all events I undoubtedly
beheld the whole of the earth's major diameter; the entire northern
hemisphere lay beneath me like a chart orthographically projected: and
the great circle of the equator itself formed the boundary line of
my horizon. Your Excellencies may, however, readily imagine that the
confined regions hitherto unexplored within the limits of the Arctic
circle, although situated directly beneath me, and therefore seen
without any appearance of being foreshortened, were still, in
themselves, comparatively too diminutive, and at too great a distance
from the point of sight, to admit of any very accurate examination.
Nevertheless, what could be seen was of a nature singular and exciting.
Northwardly from that huge rim before mentioned, and which, with slight
qualification, may be called the limit of human discovery in these
regions, one unbroken, or nearly unbroken, sheet of ice continues to
extend. In the first few degrees of this its progress, its surface is
very sensibly flattened, farther on depressed into a plane, and finally,
becoming not a little concave, it terminates, at the Pole itself, in a
circular centre, sharply defined, whose apparent diameter subtended at
the balloon an angle of about sixty-five seconds, and whose dusky hue,
varying in intensity, was, at all times, darker than any other spot upon
the visible hemisphere, and occasionally deepened into the most
absolute and impenetrable blackness. Farther than this, little could
be ascertained. By twelve o'clock the circular centre had materially
decreased in circumference, and by seven P.M. I lost sight of it
entirely; the balloon passing over the western limb of the ice, and
floating away rapidly in the direction of the equator.

"April 8th. Found a sensible diminution in the earth's apparent
diameter, besides a material alteration in its general color and
appearance. The whole visible area partook in different degrees of a
tint of pale yellow, and in some portions had acquired a brilliancy even
painful to the eye. My view downward was also considerably impeded by
the dense atmosphere in the vicinity of the surface being loaded with
clouds, between whose masses I could only now and then obtain a glimpse
of the earth itself. This difficulty of direct vision had troubled me
more or less for the last forty-eight hours; but my present enormous
elevation brought closer together, as it were, the floating bodies of
vapor, and the inconvenience became, of course, more and more palpable
in proportion to my ascent. Nevertheless, I could easily perceive that
the balloon now hovered above the range of great lakes in the continent
of North America, and was holding a course, due south, which would bring
me to the tropics. This circumstance did not fail to give me the most
heartful satisfaction, and I hailed it as a happy omen of ultimate
success. Indeed, the direction I had hitherto taken, had filled me with
uneasiness; for it was evident that, had I continued it much longer,
there would have been no possibility of my arriving at the moon at all,
whose orbit is inclined to the ecliptic at only the small angle of 5
degrees 8' 48".

"April 9th. To-day the earth's diameter was greatly diminished, and the
color of the surface assumed hourly a deeper tint of yellow. The balloon
kept steadily on her course to the southward, and arrived, at nine P.M.,
over the northern edge of the Mexican Gulf.

"April 10th. I was suddenly aroused from slumber, about five o'clock
this morning, by a loud, crackling, and terrific sound, for which I
could in no manner account. It was of very brief duration, but, while
it lasted resembled nothing in the world of which I had any previous
experience. It is needless to say that I became excessively alarmed,
having, in the first instance, attributed the noise to the bursting of
the balloon. I examined all my apparatus, however, with great attention,
and could discover nothing out of order. Spent a great part of the day
in meditating upon an occurrence so extraordinary, but could find no
means whatever of accounting for it. Went to bed dissatisfied, and in a
state of great anxiety and agitation.

"April 11th. Found a startling diminution in the apparent diameter of
the earth, and a considerable increase, now observable for the first
time, in that of the moon itself, which wanted only a few days of being
full. It now required long and excessive labor to condense within the
chamber sufficient atmospheric air for the sustenance of life.

"April 12th. A singular alteration took place in regard to the direction
of the balloon, and although fully anticipated, afforded me the most
unequivocal delight. Having reached, in its former course, about the
twentieth parallel of southern latitude, it turned off suddenly, at an
acute angle, to the eastward, and thus proceeded throughout the day,
keeping nearly, if not altogether, in the exact plane of the lunar
elipse. What was worthy of remark, a very perceptible vacillation in
the car was a consequence of this change of route--a vacillation which
prevailed, in a more or less degree, for a period of many hours.

"April 13th. Was again very much alarmed by a repetition of the loud,
crackling noise which terrified me on the tenth. Thought long upon
the subject, but was unable to form any satisfactory conclusion. Great
decrease in the earth's apparent diameter, which now subtended from the
balloon an angle of very little more than twenty-five degrees. The moon
could not be seen at all, being nearly in my zenith. I still continued
in the plane of the elipse, but made little progress to the eastward.

"April 14th. Extremely rapid decrease in the diameter of the earth.
To-day I became strongly impressed with the idea, that the balloon was
now actually running up the line of apsides to the point of perigee--in
other words, holding the direct course which would bring it immediately
to the moon in that part of its orbit the nearest to the earth. The moon
itself was directly overhead, and consequently hidden from my view.
Great and long-continued labor necessary for the condensation of the
atmosphere.

"April 15th. Not even the outlines of continents and seas could now
be traced upon the earth with anything approaching distinctness. About
twelve o'clock I became aware, for the third time, of that appalling
sound which had so astonished me before. It now, however, continued for
some moments, and gathered intensity as it continued. At length, while,
stupefied and terror-stricken, I stood in expectation of I knew not what
hideous destruction, the car vibrated with excessive violence, and
a gigantic and flaming mass of some material which I could not
distinguish, came with a voice of a thousand thunders, roaring and
booming by the balloon. When my fears and astonishment had in some
degree subsided, I had little difficulty in supposing it to be some
mighty volcanic fragment ejected from that world to which I was so
rapidly approaching, and, in all probability, one of that singular class
of substances occasionally picked up on the earth, and termed meteoric
stones for want of a better appellation.

"April 16th. To-day, looking upward as well as I could, through each
of the side windows alternately, I beheld, to my great delight, a very
small portion of the moon's disk protruding, as it were, on all sides
beyond the huge circumference of the balloon. My agitation was extreme;
for I had now little doubt of soon reaching the end of my perilous
voyage. Indeed, the labor now required by the condenser had increased
to a most oppressive degree, and allowed me scarcely any respite from
exertion. Sleep was a matter nearly out of the question. I became quite
ill, and my frame trembled with exhaustion. It was impossible that human
nature could endure this state of intense suffering much longer. During
the now brief interval of darkness a meteoric stone again passed in my
vicinity, and the frequency of these phenomena began to occasion me much
apprehension.

"April 17th. This morning proved an epoch in my voyage. It will be
remembered that, on the thirteenth, the earth subtended an angular
breadth of twenty-five degrees. On the fourteenth this had greatly
diminished; on the fifteenth a still more remarkable decrease was
observable; and, on retiring on the night of the sixteenth, I had
noticed an angle of no more than about seven degrees and fifteen
minutes. What, therefore, must have been my amazement, on awakening
from a brief and disturbed slumber, on the morning of this day,
the seventeenth, at finding the surface beneath me so suddenly and
wonderfully augmented in volume, as to subtend no less than thirty-nine
degrees in apparent angular diameter! I was thunderstruck! No words
can give any adequate idea of the extreme, the absolute horror and
astonishment, with which I was seized possessed, and altogether
overwhelmed. My knees tottered beneath me--my teeth chattered--my hair
started up on end. "The balloon, then, had actually burst!" These were
the first tumultuous ideas that hurried through my mind: "The balloon
had positively burst!--I was falling--falling with the most impetuous,
the most unparalleled velocity! To judge by the immense distance already
so quickly passed over, it could not be more than ten minutes, at the
farthest, before I should meet the surface of the earth, and be hurled
into annihilation!" But at length reflection came to my relief. I
paused; I considered; and I began to doubt. The matter was impossible.
I could not in any reason have so rapidly come down. Besides, although
I was evidently approaching the surface below me, it was with a speed
by no means commensurate with the velocity I had at first so horribly
conceived. This consideration served to calm the perturbation of my
mind, and I finally succeeded in regarding the phenomenon in its proper
point of view. In fact, amazement must have fairly deprived me of my
senses, when I could not see the vast difference, in appearance, between
the surface below me, and the surface of my mother earth. The latter
was indeed over my head, and completely hidden by the balloon, while the
moon--the moon itself in all its glory--lay beneath me, and at my feet.

"The stupor and surprise produced in my mind by this extraordinary
change in the posture of affairs was perhaps, after all, that part of
the adventure least susceptible of explanation. For the bouleversement
in itself was not only natural and inevitable, but had been long
actually anticipated as a circumstance to be expected whenever I should
arrive at that exact point of my voyage where the attraction of the
planet should be superseded by the attraction of the satellite--or, more
precisely, where the gravitation of the balloon toward the earth should
be less powerful than its gravitation toward the moon. To be sure I
arose from a sound slumber, with all my senses in confusion, to the
contemplation of a very startling phenomenon, and one which, although
expected, was not expected at the moment. The revolution itself must, of
course, have taken place in an easy and gradual manner, and it is by no
means clear that, had I even been awake at the time of the occurrence,
I should have been made aware of it by any internal evidence of an
inversion--that is to say, by any inconvenience or disarrangement,
either about my person or about my apparatus.

"It is almost needless to say that, upon coming to a due sense of my
situation, and emerging from the terror which had absorbed every faculty
of my soul, my attention was, in the first place, wholly directed to
the contemplation of the general physical appearance of the moon. It
lay beneath me like a chart--and although I judged it to be still at no
inconsiderable distance, the indentures of its surface were defined
to my vision with a most striking and altogether unaccountable
distinctness. The entire absence of ocean or sea, and indeed of any lake
or river, or body of water whatsoever, struck me, at first glance, as
the most extraordinary feature in its geological condition. Yet, strange
to say, I beheld vast level regions of a character decidedly alluvial,
although by far the greater portion of the hemisphere in sight was
covered with innumerable volcanic mountains, conical in shape, and
having more the appearance of artificial than of natural protuberance.
The highest among them does not exceed three and three-quarter miles
in perpendicular elevation; but a map of the volcanic districts of the
Campi Phlegraei would afford to your Excellencies a better idea of their
general surface than any unworthy description I might think proper to
attempt. The greater part of them were in a state of evident eruption,
and gave me fearfully to understand their fury and their power, by the
repeated thunders of the miscalled meteoric stones, which now rushed
upward by the balloon with a frequency more and more appalling.

"April 18th. To-day I found an enormous increase in the moon's apparent
bulk--and the evidently accelerated velocity of my descent began to fill
me with alarm. It will be remembered, that, in the earliest stage of
my speculations upon the possibility of a passage to the moon, the
existence, in its vicinity, of an atmosphere, dense in proportion to the
bulk of the planet, had entered largely into my calculations; this too
in spite of many theories to the contrary, and, it may be added, in
spite of a general disbelief in the existence of any lunar atmosphere at
all. But, in addition to what I have already urged in regard to Encke's
comet and the zodiacal light, I had been strengthened in my opinion by
certain observations of Mr. Schroeter, of Lilienthal. He observed the
moon when two days and a half old, in the evening soon after sunset,
before the dark part was visible, and continued to watch it until it
became visible. The two cusps appeared tapering in a very sharp faint
prolongation, each exhibiting its farthest extremity faintly illuminated
by the solar rays, before any part of the dark hemisphere was
visible. Soon afterward, the whole dark limb became illuminated. This
prolongation of the cusps beyond the semicircle, I thought, must have
arisen from the refraction of the sun's rays by the moon's atmosphere. I
computed, also, the height of the atmosphere (which could refract light
enough into its dark hemisphere to produce a twilight more luminous than
the light reflected from the earth when the moon is about 32 degrees
from the new) to be 1,356 Paris feet; in this view, I supposed the
greatest height capable of refracting the solar ray, to be 5,376 feet.
My ideas on this topic had also received confirmation by a passage in
the eighty-second volume of the Philosophical Transactions, in which
it is stated that at an occultation of Jupiter's satellites, the third
disappeared after having been about 1" or 2" of time indistinct, and the
fourth became indiscernible near the limb.(*4)

"Cassini frequently observed Saturn, Jupiter, and the fixed stars,
when approaching the moon to occultation, to have their circular figure
changed into an oval one; and, in other occultations, he found no
alteration of figure at all. Hence it might be supposed, that at some
times and not at others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon
wherein the rays of the stars are refracted.

"Upon the resistance or, more properly, upon the support of an
atmosphere, existing in the state of density imagined, I had, of course,
entirely depended for the safety of my ultimate descent. Should I then,
after all, prove to have been mistaken, I had in consequence nothing
better to expect, as a finale to my adventure, than being dashed into
atoms against the rugged surface of the satellite. And, indeed, I
had now every reason to be terrified. My distance from the moon was
comparatively trifling, while the labor required by the condenser was
diminished not at all, and I could discover no indication whatever of a
decreasing rarity in the air.

"April 19th. This morning, to my great joy, about nine o'clock, the
surface of the moon being frightfully near, and my apprehensions excited
to the utmost, the pump of my condenser at length gave evident tokens
of an alteration in the atmosphere. By ten, I had reason to believe
its density considerably increased. By eleven, very little labor was
necessary at the apparatus; and at twelve o'clock, with some hesitation,
I ventured to unscrew the tourniquet, when, finding no inconvenience
from having done so, I finally threw open the gum-elastic chamber, and
unrigged it from around the car. As might have been expected, spasms
and violent headache were the immediate consequences of an experiment
so precipitate and full of danger. But these and other difficulties
attending respiration, as they were by no means so great as to put me
in peril of my life, I determined to endure as I best could, in
consideration of my leaving them behind me momently in my approach
to the denser strata near the moon. This approach, however, was still
impetuous in the extreme; and it soon became alarmingly certain that,
although I had probably not been deceived in the expectation of an
atmosphere dense in proportion to the mass of the satellite, still I
had been wrong in supposing this density, even at the surface, at all
adequate to the support of the great weight contained in the car of my
balloon. Yet this should have been the case, and in an equal degree
as at the surface of the earth, the actual gravity of bodies at either
planet supposed in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation. That
it was not the case, however, my precipitous downfall gave testimony
enough; why it was not so, can only be explained by a reference to those
possible geological disturbances to which I have formerly alluded. At
all events I was now close upon the planet, and coming down with the
most terrible impetuosity. I lost not a moment, accordingly, in throwing
overboard first my ballast, then my water-kegs, then my condensing
apparatus and gum-elastic chamber, and finally every article within the
car. But it was all to no purpose. I still fell with horrible rapidity,
and was now not more than half a mile from the surface. As a last
resource, therefore, having got rid of my coat, hat, and boots, I cut
loose from the balloon the car itself, which was of no inconsiderable
weight, and thus, clinging with both hands to the net-work, I had barely
time to observe that the whole country, as far as the eye could reach,
was thickly interspersed with diminutive habitations, ere I tumbled
headlong into the very heart of a fantastical-looking city, and into the
middle of a vast crowd of ugly little people, who none of them uttered
a single syllable, or gave themselves the least trouble to render me
assistance, but stood, like a parcel of idiots, grinning in a ludicrous
manner, and eyeing me and my balloon askant, with their arms set
a-kimbo. I turned from them in contempt, and, gazing upward at the earth
so lately left, and left perhaps for ever, beheld it like a huge, dull,
copper shield, about two degrees in diameter, fixed immovably in the
heavens overhead, and tipped on one of its edges with a crescent
border of the most brilliant gold. No traces of land or water could be
discovered, and the whole was clouded with variable spots, and belted
with tropical and equatorial zones.

"Thus, may it please your Excellencies, after a series of great
anxieties, unheard of dangers, and unparalleled escapes, I had, at
length, on the nineteenth day of my departure from Rotterdam, arrived in
safety at the conclusion of a voyage undoubtedly the most extraordinary,
and the most momentous, ever accomplished, undertaken, or conceived by
any denizen of earth. But my adventures yet remain to be related. And
indeed your Excellencies may well imagine that, after a residence of
five years upon a planet not only deeply interesting in its own peculiar
character, but rendered doubly so by its intimate connection, in
capacity of satellite, with the world inhabited by man, I may have
intelligence for the private ear of the States' College of Astronomers
of far more importance than the details, however wonderful, of the mere
voyage which so happily concluded. This is, in fact, the case. I
have much--very much which it would give me the greatest pleasure to
communicate. I have much to say of the climate of the planet; of its
wonderful alternations of heat and cold, of unmitigated and burning
sunshine for one fortnight, and more than polar frigidity for the next;
of a constant transfer of moisture, by distillation like that in vacuo,
from the point beneath the sun to the point the farthest from it; of
a variable zone of running water, of the people themselves; of their
manners, customs, and political institutions; of their peculiar physical
construction; of their ugliness; of their want of ears, those useless
appendages in an atmosphere so peculiarly modified; of their consequent
ignorance of the use and properties of speech; of their substitute
for speech in a singular method of inter-communication; of the
incomprehensible connection between each particular individual in
the moon with some particular individual on the earth--a connection
analogous with, and depending upon, that of the orbs of the planet and
the satellites, and by means of which the lives and destinies of the
inhabitants of the one are interwoven with the lives and destinies
of the inhabitants of the other; and above all, if it so please your
Excellencies--above all, of those dark and hideous mysteries which lie
in the outer regions of the moon--regions which, owing to the almost
miraculous accordance of the satellite's rotation on its own axis with
its sidereal revolution about the earth, have never yet been turned,
and, by God's mercy, never shall be turned, to the scrutiny of the
telescopes of man. All this, and more--much more--would I most
willingly detail. But, to be brief, I must have my reward. I am pining
for a return to my family and to my home, and as the price of any
farther communication on my part--in consideration of the light which
I have it in my power to throw upon many very important branches of
physical and metaphysical science--I must solicit, through the influence
of your honorable body, a pardon for the crime of which I have been
guilty in the death of the creditors upon my departure from Rotterdam.
This, then, is the object of the present paper. Its bearer, an
inhabitant of the moon, whom I have prevailed upon, and properly
instructed, to be my messenger to the earth, will await your
Excellencies' pleasure, and return to me with the pardon in question, if
it can, in any manner, be obtained.

"I have the honor to be, etc., your Excellencies' very humble servant,

"HANS PFAALL."

Upon finishing the perusal of this very extraordinary document,
Professor Rub-a-dub, it is said, dropped his pipe upon the ground in
the extremity of his surprise, and Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk having
taken off his spectacles, wiped them, and deposited them in his pocket,
so far forgot both himself and his dignity, as to turn round three times
upon his heel in the quintessence of astonishment and admiration. There
was no doubt about the matter--the pardon should be obtained. So at
least swore, with a round oath, Professor Rub-a-dub, and so finally
thought the illustrious Von Underduk, as he took the arm of his brother
in science, and without saying a word, began to make the best of his way
home to deliberate upon the measures to be adopted. Having reached the
door, however, of the burgomaster's dwelling, the professor ventured to
suggest that as the messenger had thought proper to disappear--no
doubt frightened to death by the savage appearance of the burghers of
Rotterdam--the pardon would be of little use, as no one but a man of
the moon would undertake a voyage to so vast a distance. To the truth of
this observation the burgomaster assented, and the matter was therefore
at an end. Not so, however, rumors and speculations. The letter, having
been published, gave rise to a variety of gossip and opinion. Some of
the over-wise even made themselves ridiculous by decrying the whole
business; as nothing better than a hoax. But hoax, with these sort
of people, is, I believe, a general term for all matters above their
comprehension. For my part, I cannot conceive upon what data they have
founded such an accusation. Let us see what they say:

Imprimus. That certain wags in Rotterdam have certain especial
antipathies to certain burgomasters and astronomers.

Don't understand at all.

Secondly. That an odd little dwarf and bottle conjurer, both of whose
ears, for some misdemeanor, have been cut off close to his head, has
been missing for several days from the neighboring city of Bruges.

Well--what of that?

Thirdly. That the newspapers which were stuck all over the little
balloon were newspapers of Holland, and therefore could not have been
made in the moon. They were dirty papers--very dirty--and Gluck, the
printer, would take his Bible oath to their having been printed in
Rotterdam.

He was mistaken--undoubtedly--mistaken.

Fourthly, That Hans Pfaall himself, the drunken villain, and the three
very idle gentlemen styled his creditors, were all seen, no longer than
two or three days ago, in a tippling house in the suburbs, having just
returned, with money in their pockets, from a trip beyond the sea.

Don't believe it--don't believe a word of it.

Lastly. That it is an opinion very generally received, or which ought
to be generally received, that the College of Astronomers in the city
of Rotterdam, as well as other colleges in all other parts of the
world,--not to mention colleges and astronomers in general,--are, to say
the least of the matter, not a whit better, nor greater, nor wiser than
they ought to be.

~~~ End of Text ~~~

Notes to Hans Pfaal

(*1) NOTE--Strictly speaking, there is but little similarity between the
above sketchy trifle and the celebrated "Moon-Story" of Mr. Locke; but
as both have the character of _hoaxes _(although the one is in a tone of
banter, the other of downright earnest), and as both hoaxes are on the
same subject, the moon--moreover, as both attempt to give plausibility
by scientific detail--the author of "Hans Pfaall" thinks it necessary to
say, in _self-defence, _that his own _jeu d'esprit _was published in the
"Southern Literary Messenger" about three weeks before the commencement
of Mr. L's in the "New York Sun." Fancying a likeness which, perhaps,
does not exist, some of the New York papers copied "Hans Pfaall," and
collated it with the "Moon-Hoax," by way of detecting the writer of the
one in the writer of the other.

As many more persons were actually gulled by the "Moon-Hoax" than would
be willing to acknowledge the fact, it may here afford some little
amusement to show why no one should have been deceived-to point out
those particulars of the story which should have been sufficient to
establish its real character. Indeed, however rich the imagination
displayed in this ingenious fiction, it wanted much of the force which
might have been given it by a more scrupulous attention to facts and
to general analogy. That the public were misled, even for an instant,
merely proves the gross ignorance which is so generally prevalent upon
subjects of an astronomical nature.

The moon's distance from the earth is, in round numbers, 240,000 miles.
If we desire to ascertain how near, apparently, a lens would bring the
satellite (or any distant object), we, of course, have but to divide the
distance by the magnifying or, more strictly, by the space-penetrating
power of the glass. Mr. L. makes his lens have a power of 42,000 times.
By this divide 240,000 (the moon's real distance), and we have five
miles and five sevenths, as the apparent distance. No animal at all
could be seen so far; much less the minute points particularized in the
story. Mr. L. speaks about Sir John Herschel's perceiving flowers (the
Papaver rheas, etc.), and even detecting the color and the shape of the
eyes of small birds. Shortly before, too, he has himself observed that
the lens would not render perceptible objects of less than eighteen
inches in diameter; but even this, as I have said, is giving the glass
by far too great power. It may be observed, in passing, that this
prodigious glass is said to have been molded at the glasshouse of
Messrs. Hartley and Grant, in Dumbarton; but Messrs. H. and G.'s
establishment had ceased operations for many years previous to the
publication of the hoax.

On page 13, pamphlet edition, speaking of "a hairy veil" over the eyes
of a species of bison, the author says: "It immediately occurred to the
acute mind of Dr. Herschel that this was a providential contrivance
to protect the eyes of the animal from the great extremes of light
and darkness to which all the inhabitants of our side of the moon are
periodically subjected." But this cannot be thought a very "acute"
observation of the Doctor's. The inhabitants of our side of the moon
have, evidently, no darkness at all, so there can be nothing of the
"extremes" mentioned. In the absence of the sun they have a light from
the earth equal to that of thirteen full unclouded moons.

The topography throughout, even when professing to accord with Blunt's
Lunar Chart, is entirely at variance with that or any other lunar chart,
and even grossly at variance with itself. The points of the compass,
too, are in inextricable confusion; the writer appearing to be ignorant
that, on a lunar map, these are not in accordance with terrestrial
points; the east being to the left, etc.

Deceived, perhaps, by the vague titles, Mare Nubium, Mare
Tranquillitatis, Mare Faecunditatis, etc., given to the dark spots by
former astronomers, Mr. L. has entered into details regarding oceans
and other large bodies of water in the moon; whereas there is no
astronomical point more positively ascertained than that no such bodies
exist there. In examining the boundary between light and darkness (in
the crescent or gibbous moon) where this boundary crosses any of the
dark places, the line of division is found to be rough and jagged; but,
were these dark places liquid, it would evidently be even.

The description of the wings of the man-bat, on page 21, is but a
literal copy of Peter Wilkins' account of the wings of his flying
islanders. This simple fact should have induced suspicion, at least, it
might be thought.

On page 23, we have the following: "What a prodigious influence must our
thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an
embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity!"
This is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would
have made such remark, especially to any journal of Science; for the
earth, in the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty-nine times
larger than the moon. A similar objection applies to the whole of the
concluding pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in
Saturn, the philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy
account of that planet--this to the "Edinburgh journal of Science!"

But there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the
fiction. Let us imagine the power actually possessed of seeing animals
upon the moon's surface--what would first arrest the attention of an
observer from the earth? Certainly neither their shape, size, nor any
other such peculiarity, so soon as their remarkable _situation_. They
would appear to be walking, with heels up and head down, in the manner
of flies on a ceiling. The _real_ observer would have uttered an instant
ejaculation of surprise (however prepared by previous knowledge) at the
singularity of their position; the _fictitious_ observer has not even
mentioned the subject, but speaks of seeing the entire bodies of such
creatures, when it is demonstrable that he could have seen only the
diameter of their heads!

It might as well be remarked, in conclusion, that the size, and
particularly the powers of the man-bats (for example, their ability to
fly in so rare an atmosphere--if, indeed, the moon have any), with most
of the other fancies in regard to animal and vegetable existence, are at
variance, generally, with all analogical reasoning on these themes; and
that analogy here will often amount to conclusive demonstration. It is,
perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that all the suggestions attributed
to Brewster and Herschel, in the beginning of the article, about "a
transfusion of artificial light through the focal object of vision,"
etc., etc., belong to that species of figurative writing which comes,
most properly, under the denomination of rigmarole.

There is a real and very definite limit to optical discovery among the
stars--a limit whose nature need only be stated to be understood. If,
indeed, the casting of large lenses were all that is required, man's
ingenuity would ultimately prove equal to the task, and we might have
them of any size demanded. But, unhappily, in proportion to the increase
of size in the lens, and consequently of space-penetrating power, is the
diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its rays. And for
this evil there is no remedy within human ability; for an object is seen
by means of that light alone which proceeds from itself, whether direct
or reflected. Thus the only "artificial" light which could avail
Mr. Locke, would be some artificial light which he should be able to
throw-not upon the "focal object of vision," but upon the real object
to be viewed-to wit: upon the moon. It has been easily calculated that,
when the light proceeding from a star becomes so diffused as to be as
weak as the natural light proceeding from the whole of the stars, in
a clear and moonless night, then the star is no longer visible for any
practical purpose.

The Earl of Ross's telescope, lately constructed in England, has
a _speculum_ with a reflecting surface of 4,071 square inches; the
Herschel telescope having one of only 1,811. The metal of the Earl of
Ross's is 6 feet diameter; it is 5 1/2 inches thick at the edges, and 5
at the centre. The weight is 3 tons. The focal length is 50 feet.

I have lately read a singular and somewhat ingenious little book, whose
title-page runs thus: "L'Homme dans la lvne ou le Voyage Chimerique
fait au Monde de la Lvne, nouellement decouvert par Dominique Gonzales,
Aduanturier Espagnol, autremẽt dit le Courier volant. Mis en notre
langve par J. B. D. A. Paris, chez Francois Piot, pres la Fontaine de
Saint Benoist. Et chez J. Goignard, au premier pilier de la grand'salle
du Palais, proche les Consultations, MDCXLVII." Pp. 76.

The writer professes to have translated his work from the English of one
Mr. D'Avisson (Davidson?) although there is a terrible ambiguity in the
statement. "J' en ai eu," says he "l'original de Monsieur D'Avisson,
medecin des mieux versez qui soient aujourd'huy dans la cõnoissance des
Belles Lettres, et sur tout de la Philosophic Naturelle. Je lui ai cette
obligation entre les autres, de m' auoir non seulement mis en main
cc Livre en anglois, mais encore le Manuscrit du Sieur Thomas D'Anan,
gentilhomme Eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version
duquel j' advoue que j' ay tiré le plan de la mienne."

After some irrelevant adventures, much in the manner of Gil Blas, and
which occupy the first thirty pages, the author relates that, being
ill during a sea voyage, the crew abandoned him, together with a
negro servant, on the island of St. Helena. To increase the chances of
obtaining food, the two separate, and live as far apart as possible.
This brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of
carrier-pigeons between them. By and by these are taught to carry
parcels of some weight-and this weight is gradually increased. At length
the idea is entertained of uniting the force of a great number of the
birds, with a view to raising the author himself. A machine is contrived
for the purpose, and we have a minute description of it, which is
materially helped out by a steel engraving. Here we perceive the
Signor Gonzales, with point ruffles and a huge periwig, seated astride
something which resembles very closely a broomstick, and borne aloft by
a multitude of wild swans _(ganzas) _who had strings reaching from their
tails to the machine.

The main event detailed in the Signor's narrative depends upon a very
important fact, of which the reader is kept in ignorance until near the
end of the book. The _ganzas, _with whom he had become so familiar, were
not really denizens of St. Helena, but of the moon. Thence it had been
their custom, time out of mind, to migrate annually to some portion of
the earth. In proper season, of course, they would return home; and
the author, happening, one day, to require their services for a short
voyage, is unexpectedly carried straight tip, and in a very brief period
arrives at the satellite. Here he finds, among other odd things, that
the people enjoy extreme happiness; that they have no _law; _that they
die without pain; that they are from ten to thirty feet in height;
that they live five thousand years; that they have an emperor called
Irdonozur; and that they can jump sixty feet high, when, being out of
the gravitating influence, they fly about with fans.

I cannot forbear giving a specimen of the general _philosophy _of the
volume.

"I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of
the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it
the larger they seemed. I have also me and the earth. As to the
stars, _since there was no night where I was, they always had the same
appearance; not brilliant, as usual, but pale, and very nearly like the
moon of a morning. _But few of them were visible, and these ten times
larger (as well as I could judge) than they seem to the inhabitants
of the earth. The moon, which wanted two days of being full, was of a
terrible bigness.

 "I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side
of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it
the larger they seemed. I have also to inform you that, whether it was
calm weather or stormy, I found myself _always immediately between the
moon and the earth._ I_ _was convinced of this for two reasons-because
my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we
attempted to rest, _we were carried insensibly around the globe of the
earth. _For I admit the opinion of Copernicus, who maintains that it
never ceases to revolve _from the east to the west, _not upon the poles
of the Equinoctial, commonly called the poles of the world, but upon
those of the Zodiac, a question of which I propose to speak more at
length here-after, when I shall have leisure to refresh my memory in
regard to the astrology which I learned at Salamanca when young, and
have since forgotten."

Notwithstanding the blunders italicized, the book is not without
some claim to attention, as affording a naive specimen of the current
astronomical notions of the time. One of these assumed, that the
"gravitating power" extended but a short distance from the earth's
surface, and, accordingly, we find our voyager "carried insensibly
around the globe," etc.

There have been other "voyages to the moon," but none of higher merit
than the one just mentioned. That of Bergerac is utterly meaningless. In
the third volume of the "American Quarterly Review" will be found
quite an elaborate criticism upon a certain "journey" of the kind in
question--a criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic
most exposes the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of
astronomy. I forget the title of the work; but the _means _of the voyage
are more deplorably ill conceived than are even the _ganzas _of our
friend the Signor Gonzales. The adventurer, in digging the earth,
happens to discover a peculiar metal for which the moon has a strong
attraction, and straightway constructs of it a box, which, when cast
loose from its terrestrial fastenings, flies with him, forthwith, to
the satellite. The "Flight of Thomas O'Rourke," is a _jeu d' esprit _not
altogether contemptible, and has been translated into German. Thomas,
the hero, was, in fact, the gamekeeper of an Irish peer, whose
eccentricities gave rise to the tale. The "flight" is made on an eagle's
back, from Hungry Hill, a lofty mountain at the end of Bantry Bay.

In these various _brochures _the aim is always satirical; the theme
being a description of Lunarian customs as compared with ours. In none
is there any effort at _plausibility _in the details of the voyage
itself. The writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in
respect to astronomy. In "Hans Pfaall" the design is original, inasmuch
as regards an attempt at _verisimilitude, _in the application of
scientific principles (so far as the whimsical nature of the subject
would permit), to the actual passage between the earth and the moon.

(*2) The zodiacal light is probably what the ancients called Trabes.
Emicant Trabes quos docos vocant.--Pliny, lib. 2, p. 26.

(*3) Since the original publication of Hans Pfaall, I find that Mr.
Green, of Nassau balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny
the assertions of Humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a decreasing
inconvenience,--precisely in accordance with the theory here urged in a
mere spirit of banter.

(*4) Havelius writes that he has several times found, in skies
perfectly clear, when even stars of the sixth and seventh magnitude
were conspicuous, that, at the same altitude of the moon, at the
same elongation from the earth, and with one and the same excellent
telescope, the moon and its maculae did not appear equally lucid at all
times. From the circumstances of the observation, it is evident that the
cause of this phenomenon is not either in our air, in the tube, in
the moon, or in the eye of the spectator, but must be looked for in
something (an atmosphere?) existing about the moon.




THE GOLD-BUG

          What ho! what ho! this fellow is dancing mad!

               He hath been bitten by the Tarantula.

                    _--All in the Wrong._

MANY years ago, I contracted an intimacy with a Mr. William Legrand.
He was of an ancient Huguenot family, and had once been wealthy; but
a series of misfortunes had reduced him to want. To avoid the
mortification consequent upon his disasters, he left New Orleans, the
city of his forefathers, and took up his residence at Sullivan's Island,
near Charleston, South Carolina. This Island is a very singular one.
It consists of little else than the sea sand, and is about three
miles long. Its breadth at no point exceeds a quarter of a mile. It is
separated from the main land by a scarcely perceptible creek, oozing its
way through a wilderness of reeds and slime, a favorite resort of the
marsh hen. The vegetation, as might be supposed, is scant, or at least
dwarfish. No trees of any magnitude are to be seen. Near the western
extremity, where Fort Moultrie stands, and where are some miserable
frame buildings, tenanted, during summer, by the fugitives from
Charleston dust and fever, may be found, indeed, the bristly palmetto;
but the whole island, with the exception of this western point, and
a line of hard, white beach on the seacoast, is covered with a dense
undergrowth of the sweet myrtle, so much prized by the horticulturists
of England. The shrub here often attains the height of fifteen or twenty
feet, and forms an almost impenetrable coppice, burthening the air with
its fragrance.

In the inmost recesses of this coppice, not far from the eastern or more
remote end of the island, Legrand had built himself a small hut, which
he occupied when I first, by mere accident, made his acquaintance.
This soon ripened into friendship--for there was much in the recluse
to excite interest and esteem. I found him well educated, with unusual
powers of mind, but infected with misanthropy, and subject to perverse
moods of alternate enthusiasm and melancholy. He had with him many
books, but rarely employed them. His chief amusements were gunning and
fishing, or sauntering along the beach and through the myrtles, in quest
of shells or entomological specimens;--his collection of the latter
might have been envied by a Swammerdamm. In these excursions he was
usually accompanied by an old negro, called Jupiter, who had been
manumitted before the reverses of the family, but who could be induced,
neither by threats nor by promises, to abandon what he considered his
right of attendance upon the footsteps of his young "Massa Will." It
is not improbable that the relatives of Legrand, conceiving him to be
somewhat unsettled in intellect, had contrived to instil this obstinacy
into Jupiter, with a view to the supervision and guardianship of the
wanderer.

The winters in the latitude of Sullivan's Island are seldom very severe,
and in the fall of the year it is a rare event indeed when a fire is
considered necessary. About the middle of October, 18-, there occurred,
however, a day of remarkable chilliness. Just before sunset I scrambled
my way through the evergreens to the hut of my friend, whom I had
not visited for several weeks--my residence being, at that time,
in Charleston, a distance of nine miles from the Island, while the
facilities of passage and re-passage were very far behind those of
the present day. Upon reaching the hut I rapped, as was my custom,
and getting no reply, sought for the key where I knew it was secreted,
unlocked the door and went in. A fine fire was blazing upon the hearth.
It was a novelty, and by no means an ungrateful one. I threw off an
overcoat, took an arm-chair by the crackling logs, and awaited patiently
the arrival of my hosts.

Soon after dark they arrived, and gave me a most cordial welcome.
Jupiter, grinning from ear to ear, bustled about to prepare some
marsh-hens for supper. Legrand was in one of his fits--how else shall
I term them?--of enthusiasm. He had found an unknown bivalve, forming
a new genus, and, more than this, he had hunted down and secured, with
Jupiter's assistance, a scarabæus which he believed to be totally new,
but in respect to which he wished to have my opinion on the morrow.

"And why not to-night?" I asked, rubbing my hands over the blaze, and
wishing the whole tribe of scarabæi at the devil.

"Ah, if I had only known you were here!" said Legrand, "but it's so long
since I saw you; and how could I foresee that you would pay me a visit
this very night of all others? As I was coming home I met Lieutenant
G--, from the fort, and, very foolishly, I lent him the bug; so it will
be impossible for you to see it until the morning. Stay here to-night,
and I will send Jup down for it at sunrise. It is the loveliest thing in
creation!"

"What?--sunrise?"

"Nonsense! no!--the bug. It is of a brilliant gold color--about the size
of a large hickory-nut--with two jet black spots near one extremity of
the back, and another, somewhat longer, at the other. The antennæ are--"

"Dey aint no tin in him, Massa Will, I keep a tellin on you," here
interrupted Jupiter; "de bug is a goole bug, solid, ebery bit of him,
inside and all, sep him wing--neber feel half so hebby a bug in my
life."

"Well, suppose it is, Jup," replied Legrand, somewhat more earnestly,
it seemed to me, than the case demanded, "is that any reason for your
letting the birds burn? The color"--here he turned to me--"is really
almost enough to warrant Jupiter's idea. You never saw a more brilliant
metallic lustre than the scales emit--but of this you cannot judge
till tomorrow. In the mean time I can give you some idea of the shape."
Saying this, he seated himself at a small table, on which were a pen and
ink, but no paper. He looked for some in a drawer, but found none.

"Never mind," said he at length, "this will answer;" and he drew from
his waistcoat pocket a scrap of what I took to be very dirty foolscap,
and made upon it a rough drawing with the pen. While he did this, I
retained my seat by the fire, for I was still chilly. When the design
was complete, he handed it to me without rising. As I received it, a
loud growl was heard, succeeded by a scratching at the door. Jupiter
opened it, and a large Newfoundland, belonging to Legrand, rushed in,
leaped upon my shoulders, and loaded me with caresses; for I had shown
him much attention during previous visits. When his gambols were over, I
looked at the paper, and, to speak the truth, found myself not a little
puzzled at what my friend had depicted.

"Well!" I said, after contemplating it for some minutes, "this is a
strange scarabæus, I must confess: new to me: never saw anything like it
before--unless it was a skull, or a death's-head--which it more nearly
resembles than anything else that has come under my observation."

"A death's-head!" echoed Legrand--"Oh--yes--well, it has something of
that appearance upon paper, no doubt. The two upper black spots look
like eyes, eh? and the longer one at the bottom like a mouth--and then
the shape of the whole is oval."

"Perhaps so," said I; "but, Legrand, I fear you are no artist. I must
wait until I see the beetle itself, if I am to form any idea of its
personal appearance."

"Well, I don't know," said he, a little nettled, "I draw
tolerably--should do it at least--have had good masters, and flatter
myself that I am not quite a blockhead."

"But, my dear fellow, you are joking then," said I, "this is a very
passable skull--indeed, I may say that it is a very excellent skull,
according to the vulgar notions about such specimens of physiology--and
your scarabæus must be the queerest scarabæus in the world if it
resembles it. Why, we may get up a very thrilling bit of superstition
upon this hint. I presume you will call the bug scarabæus caput hominis,
or something of that kind--there are many similar titles in the Natural
Histories. But where are the antennæ you spoke of?"

"The antennæ!" said Legrand, who seemed to be getting unaccountably warm
upon the subject; "I am sure you must see the antennæ. I made them
as distinct as they are in the original insect, and I presume that is
sufficient."

"Well, well," I said, "perhaps you have--still I don't see them;" and
I handed him the paper without additional remark, not wishing to ruffle
his temper; but I was much surprised at the turn affairs had taken; his
ill humor puzzled me--and, as for the drawing of the beetle, there
were positively no antennæ visible, and the whole did bear a very close
resemblance to the ordinary cuts of a death's-head.

He received the paper very peevishly, and was about to crumple it,
apparently to throw it in the fire, when a casual glance at the design
seemed suddenly to rivet his attention. In an instant his face grew
violently red--in another as excessively pale. For some minutes he
continued to scrutinize the drawing minutely where he sat. At length he
arose, took a candle from the table, and proceeded to seat himself upon
a sea-chest in the farthest corner of the room. Here again he made an
anxious examination of the paper; turning it in all directions. He said
nothing, however, and his conduct greatly astonished me; yet I thought
it prudent not to exacerbate the growing moodiness of his temper by any
comment. Presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet, placed the
paper carefully in it, and deposited both in a writing-desk, which he
locked. He now grew more composed in his demeanor; but his original air
of enthusiasm had quite disappeared. Yet he seemed not so much sulky as
abstracted. As the evening wore away he became more and more absorbed in
reverie, from which no sallies of mine could arouse him. It had been my
intention to pass the night at the hut, as I had frequently done before,
but, seeing my host in this mood, I deemed it proper to take leave. He
did not press me to remain, but, as I departed, he shook my hand with
even more than his usual cordiality.

It was about a month after this (and during the interval I had seen
nothing of Legrand) when I received a visit, at Charleston, from his
man, Jupiter. I had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited,
and I feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend.

"Well, Jup," said I, "what is the matter now?--how is your master?"

"Why, to speak de troof, massa, him not so berry well as mought be."

"Not well! I am truly sorry to hear it. What does he complain of?"

"Dar! dat's it!--him neber plain of notin--but him berry sick for all
dat."

"Very sick, Jupiter!--why didn't you say so at once? Is he confined to
bed?"

"No, dat he aint!--he aint find nowhar--dat's just whar de shoe
pinch--my mind is got to be berry hebby bout poor Massa Will."

"Jupiter, I should like to understand what it is you are talking about.
You say your master is sick. Hasn't he told you what ails him?"

"Why, massa, taint worf while for to git mad about de matter--Massa
Will say noffin at all aint de matter wid him--but den what make him go
about looking dis here way, wid he head down and he soldiers up, and as
white as a gose? And den he keep a syphon all de time--"

"Keeps a what, Jupiter?"

"Keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate--de queerest figgurs I ebber
did see. Ise gittin to be skeered, I tell you. Hab for to keep mighty
tight eye pon him noovers. Todder day he gib me slip fore de sun up and
was gone de whole ob de blessed day. I had a big stick ready cut for to
gib him deuced good beating when he did come--but Ise sich a fool dat I
hadn't de heart arter all--he look so berry poorly."

"Eh?--what?--ah yes!--upon the whole I think you had better not be too
severe with the poor fellow--don't flog him, Jupiter--he can't very well
stand it--but can you form no idea of what has occasioned this illness,
or rather this change of conduct? Has anything unpleasant happened since
I saw you?"

"No, massa, dey aint bin noffin unpleasant since den--'twas fore den I'm
feared--'twas de berry day you was dare."

"How? what do you mean?"

"Why, massa, I mean de bug--dare now."

"The what?"

"De bug,--I'm berry sartain dat Massa Will bin bit somewhere bout de
head by dat goole-bug."

"And what cause have you, Jupiter, for such a supposition?"

"Claws enuff, massa, and mouth too. I nebber did see sick a deuced
bug--he kick and he bite ebery ting what cum near him. Massa Will cotch
him fuss, but had for to let him go gin mighty quick, I tell you--den
was de time he must ha got de bite. I did n't like de look oh de bug
mouff, myself, no how, so I would n't take hold ob him wid my finger,
but I cotch him wid a piece ob paper dat I found. I rap him up in de
paper and stuff piece ob it in he mouff--dat was de way."

"And you think, then, that your master was really bitten by the beetle,
and that the bite made him sick?"

"I do n't tink noffin about it--I nose it. What make him dream bout de
goole so much, if taint cause he bit by de goole-bug? Ise heerd bout dem
goole-bugs fore dis."

"But how do you know he dreams about gold?"

"How I know? why cause he talk about it in he sleep--dat's how I nose."

"Well, Jup, perhaps you are right; but to what fortunate circumstance am
I to attribute the honor of a visit from you to-day?"

"What de matter, massa?"

"Did you bring any message from Mr. Legrand?"

"No, massa, I bring dis here pissel;" and here Jupiter handed me a note
which ran thus:

    MY DEAR ----

Why have I not seen you for so long a time? I hope you have not been so
foolish as to take offence at any little _brusquerie_ of mine; but no,
that is improbable. Since I saw you I have had great cause for anxiety.
I have something to tell you, yet scarcely know how to tell it, or
whether I should tell it at all.

I have not been quite well for some days past, and poor old Jup annoys
me, almost beyond endurance, by his well-meant attentions Would you
believe it?--he had prepared a huge stick, the other day, with which
to chastise me for giving him the slip, and spending the day, _solus_,
among the hills on the main land. I verily believe that my ill looks
alone saved me a flogging.

I have made no addition to my cabinet since we met.

If you can, in any way, make it convenient, come over with Jupiter.
_Do_ come. I wish to see you to-_night_, upon business of importance. I
assure you that it is of the _highest_ importance.

        Ever yours,                     WILLIAM LEGRAND.

There was something in the tone of this note which gave me great
uneasiness. Its whole style differed materially from that of Legrand.
What could he be dreaming of? What new crotchet possessed his excitable
brain? What "business of the highest importance" could he possibly have
to transact? Jupiter's account of him boded no good. I dreaded lest the
continued pressure of misfortune had, at length, fairly unsettled
the reason of my friend. Without a moment's hesitation, therefore, I
prepared to accompany the negro.

Upon reaching the wharf, I noticed a scythe and three spades, all
apparently new, lying in the bottom of the boat in which we were to
embark.

"What is the meaning of all this, Jup?" I inquired.

"Him syfe, massa, and spade."

"Very true; but what are they doing here?"

"Him de syfe and de spade what Massa Will sis pon my buying for him in
de town, and de debbils own lot of money I had to gib for em."

"But what, in the name of all that is mysterious, is your 'Massa Will'
going to do with scythes and spades?"

"Dat's more dan I know, and debbil take me if I don't blieve 'tis more
dan he know, too. But it's all cum ob do bug."

Finding that no satisfaction was to be obtained of Jupiter, whose whole
intellect seemed to be absorbed by "de bug," I now stepped into the boat
and made sail. With a fair and strong breeze we soon ran into the little
cove to the northward of Fort Moultrie, and a walk of some two miles
brought us to the hut. It was about three in the afternoon when we
arrived. Legrand had been awaiting us in eager expectation. He grasped
my hand with a nervous empressement which alarmed me and strengthened
the suspicions already entertained. His countenance was pale even to
ghastliness, and his deep-set eyes glared with unnatural lustre. After
some inquiries respecting his health, I asked him, not knowing what
better to say, if he had yet obtained the scarabæus from Lieutenant
G ----.

"Oh, yes," he replied, coloring violently, "I got it from him the next
morning. Nothing should tempt me to part with that scarabæus. Do you
know that Jupiter is quite right about it?"

"In what way?" I asked, with a sad foreboding at heart.

"In supposing it to be a bug of real gold." He said this with an air of
profound seriousness, and I felt inexpressibly shocked.

"This bug is to make my fortune," he continued, with a triumphant smile,
"to reinstate me in my family possessions. Is it any wonder, then, that
I prize it? Since Fortune has thought fit to bestow it upon me, I have
only to use it properly and I shall arrive at the gold of which it is
the index. Jupiter; bring me that scarabæus!"

"What! de bug, massa? I'd rudder not go fer trubble dat bug--you mus git
him for your own self." Hereupon Legrand arose, with a grave and
stately air, and brought me the beetle from a glass case in which it was
enclosed. It was a beautiful scarabæus, and, at that time, unknown to
naturalists--of course a great prize in a scientific point of view.
There were two round, black spots near one extremity of the back, and
a long one near the other. The scales were exceedingly hard and glossy,
with all the appearance of burnished gold. The weight of the insect
was very remarkable, and, taking all things into consideration, I could
hardly blame Jupiter for his opinion respecting it; but what to make of
Legrand's concordance with that opinion, I could not, for the life of
me, tell.

"I sent for you," said he, in a grandiloquent tone, when I had completed
my examination of the beetle, "I sent for you, that I might have your
counsel and assistance in furthering the views of Fate and of the bug"--

"My dear Legrand," I cried, interrupting him, "you are certainly unwell,
and had better use some little precautions. You shall go to bed, and
I will remain with you a few days, until you get over this. You are
feverish and"--

"Feel my pulse," said he.

I felt it, and, to say the truth, found not the slightest indication of
fever.

"But you may be ill and yet have no fever. Allow me this once to
prescribe for you. In the first place, go to bed. In the next"--

"You are mistaken," he interposed, "I am as well as I can expect to be
under the excitement which I suffer. If you really wish me well, you
will relieve this excitement."

"And how is this to be done?"

"Very easily. Jupiter and myself are going upon an expedition into the
hills, upon the main land, and, in this expedition we shall need the
aid of some person in whom we can confide. You are the only one we can
trust. Whether we succeed or fail, the excitement which you now perceive
in me will be equally allayed."

"I am anxious to oblige you in any way," I replied; "but do you mean to
say that this infernal beetle has any connection with your expedition
into the hills?"

"It has."

"Then, Legrand, I can become a party to no such absurd proceeding."

"I am sorry--very sorry--for we shall have to try it by ourselves."

"Try it by yourselves! The man is surely mad!--but stay!--how long do
you propose to be absent?"

"Probably all night. We shall start immediately, and be back, at all
events, by sunrise."

"And will you promise me, upon your honor, that when this freak of yours
is over, and the bug business (good God!) settled to your satisfaction,
you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly, as that of
your physician?"

"Yes; I promise; and now let us be off, for we have no time to lose."

With a heavy heart I accompanied my friend. We started about four
o'clock--Legrand, Jupiter, the dog, and myself. Jupiter had with him the
scythe and spades--the whole of which he insisted upon carrying--more
through fear, it seemed to me, of trusting either of the implements
within reach of his master, than from any excess of industry or
complaisance. His demeanor was dogged in the extreme, and "dat deuced
bug" were the sole words which escaped his lips during the journey. For
my own part, I had charge of a couple of dark lanterns, while Legrand
contented himself with the scarabæus, which he carried attached to the
end of a bit of whip-cord; twirling it to and fro, with the air of a
conjuror, as he went. When I observed this last, plain evidence of my
friend's aberration of mind, I could scarcely refrain from tears. I
thought it best, however, to humor his fancy, at least for the present,
or until I could adopt some more energetic measures with a chance of
success. In the mean time I endeavored, but all in vain, to sound him in
regard to the object of the expedition. Having succeeded in inducing
me to accompany him, he seemed unwilling to hold conversation upon any
topic of minor importance, and to all my questions vouchsafed no other
reply than "we shall see!"

We crossed the creek at the head of the island by means of a skiff; and,
ascending the high grounds on the shore of the main land, proceeded in a
northwesterly direction, through a tract of country excessively wild and
desolate, where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen. Legrand led
the way with decision; pausing only for an instant, here and there, to
consult what appeared to be certain landmarks of his own contrivance
upon a former occasion.

In this manner we journeyed for about two hours, and the sun was just
setting when we entered a region infinitely more dreary than any yet
seen. It was a species of table land, near the summit of an almost
inaccessible hill, densely wooded from base to pinnacle, and
interspersed with huge crags that appeared to lie loosely upon the soil,
and in many cases were prevented from precipitating themselves into the
valleys below, merely by the support of the trees against which they
reclined. Deep ravines, in various directions, gave an air of still
sterner solemnity to the scene.

The natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown
with brambles, through which we soon discovered that it would have
been impossible to force our way but for the scythe; and Jupiter, by
direction of his master, proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of
an enormously tall tulip-tree, which stood, with some eight or ten oaks,
upon the level, and far surpassed them all, and all other trees which I
had then ever seen, in the beauty of its foliage and form, in the wide
spread of its branches, and in the general majesty of its appearance.
When we reached this tree, Legrand turned to Jupiter, and asked him if
he thought he could climb it. The old man seemed a little staggered
by the question, and for some moments made no reply. At length he
approached the huge trunk, walked slowly around it, and examined it with
minute attention. When he had completed his scrutiny, he merely said,

"Yes, massa, Jup climb any tree he ebber see in he life."

"Then up with you as soon as possible, for it will soon be too dark to
see what we are about."

"How far mus go up, massa?" inquired Jupiter.

"Get up the main trunk first, and then I will tell you which way to
go--and here--stop! take this beetle with you."

"De bug, Massa Will!--de goole bug!" cried the negro, drawing back in
dismay--"what for mus tote de bug way up de tree?--d-n if I do!"

"If you are afraid, Jup, a great big negro like you, to take hold of
a harmless little dead beetle, why you can carry it up by this
string--but, if you do not take it up with you in some way, I shall be
under the necessity of breaking your head with this shovel."

"What de matter now, massa?" said Jup, evidently shamed into compliance;
"always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger. Was only funnin any how.
Me feered de bug! what I keer for de bug?" Here he took cautiously hold
of the extreme end of the string, and, maintaining the insect as far
from his person as circumstances would permit, prepared to ascend the
tree.

In youth, the tulip-tree, or Liriodendron Tulipferum, the most
magnificent of American foresters, has a trunk peculiarly smooth, and
often rises to a great height without lateral branches; but, in its
riper age, the bark becomes gnarled and uneven, while many short limbs
make their appearance on the stem. Thus the difficulty of ascension, in
the present case, lay more in semblance than in reality. Embracing the
huge cylinder, as closely as possible, with his arms and knees, seizing
with his hands some projections, and resting his naked toes upon
others, Jupiter, after one or two narrow escapes from falling, at length
wriggled himself into the first great fork, and seemed to consider the
whole business as virtually accomplished. The risk of the achievement
was, in fact, now over, although the climber was some sixty or seventy
feet from the ground.

"Which way mus go now, Massa Will?" he asked.

"Keep up the largest branch--the one on this side," said Legrand. The
negro obeyed him promptly, and apparently with but little trouble;
ascending higher and higher, until no glimpse of his squat figure could
be obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it. Presently his
voice was heard in a sort of halloo.

"How much fudder is got for go?"

"How high up are you?" asked Legrand.

"Ebber so fur," replied the negro; "can see de sky fru de top ob de
tree."

"Never mind the sky, but attend to what I say. Look down the trunk and
count the limbs below you on this side. How many limbs have you passed?"

"One, two, tree, four, fibe--I done pass fibe big limb, massa, pon dis
side."

"Then go one limb higher."

In a few minutes the voice was heard again, announcing that the seventh
limb was attained.

"Now, Jup," cried Legrand, evidently much excited, "I want you to work
your way out upon that limb as far as you can. If you see anything
strange, let me know." By this time what little doubt I might have
entertained of my poor friend's insanity, was put finally at rest. I had
no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy, and I became
seriously anxious about getting him home. While I was pondering upon
what was best to be done, Jupiter's voice was again heard.

"Mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far--tis dead limb putty
much all de way."

"Did you say it was a dead limb, Jupiter?" cried Legrand in a quavering
voice.

"Yes, massa, him dead as de door-nail--done up for sartain--done
departed dis here life."

"What in the name heaven shall I do?" asked Legrand, seemingly in the
greatest distress. "Do!" said I, glad of an opportunity to interpose
a word, "why come home and go to bed. Come now!--that's a fine fellow.
It's getting late, and, besides, you remember your promise."

"Jupiter," cried he, without heeding me in the least, "do you hear me?"

"Yes, Massa Will, hear you ebber so plain."

"Try the wood well, then, with your knife, and see if you think it very
rotten."

"Him rotten, massa, sure nuff," replied the negro in a few moments, "but
not so berry rotten as mought be. Mought ventur out leetle way pon de
limb by myself, dat's true."

"By yourself!--what do you mean?"

"Why I mean de bug. 'Tis berry hebby bug. Spose I drop him down fuss,
and den de limb won't break wid just de weight ob one nigger."

"You infernal scoundrel!" cried Legrand, apparently much relieved, "what
do you mean by telling me such nonsense as that? As sure as you drop
that beetle I'll break your neck. Look here, Jupiter, do you hear me?"

"Yes, massa, needn't hollo at poor nigger dat style."

"Well! now listen!--if you will venture out on the limb as far as you
think safe, and not let go the beetle, I'll make you a present of a
silver dollar as soon as you get down."

"I'm gwine, Massa Will--deed I is," replied the negro very
promptly--"mos out to the eend now."

"Out to the end!" here fairly screamed Legrand, "do you say you are out
to the end of that limb?"

"Soon be to de eend, massa,--o-o-o-o-oh! Lor-gol-a-marcy! what is dis
here pon de tree?"

"Well!" cried Legrand, highly delighted, "what is it?"

"Why taint noffin but a skull--somebody bin lef him head up de tree, and
de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off."

"A skull, you say!--very well!--how is it fastened to the limb?--what
holds it on?"

"Sure nuff, massa; mus look. Why dis berry curous sarcumstance, pon my
word--dare's a great big nail in de skull, what fastens ob it on to de
tree."

"Well now, Jupiter, do exactly as I tell you--do you hear?"

"Yes, massa."

"Pay attention, then!--find the left eye of the skull."

"Hum! hoo! dat's good! why dare aint no eye lef at all."

"Curse your stupidity! do you know your right hand from your left?"

"Yes, I nose dat--nose all bout dat--tis my lef hand what I chops de
wood wid."

"To be sure! you are left-handed; and your left eye is on the same
side as your left hand. Now, I suppose, you can find the left eye of the
skull, or the place where the left eye has been. Have you found it?"

Here was a long pause. At length the negro asked,

"Is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull,
too?--cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all--nebber mind!
I got de lef eye now--here de lef eye! what mus do wid it?"

"Let the beetle drop through it, as far as the string will reach--but
be careful and not let go your hold of the string."

"All dat done, Massa Will; mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de
hole--look out for him dare below!"

During this colloquy no portion of Jupiter's person could be seen; but
the beetle, which he had suffered to descend, was now visible at the
end of the string, and glistened, like a globe of burnished gold, in the
last rays of the setting sun, some of which still faintly illumined
the eminence upon which we stood. The scarabæus hung quite clear of
any branches, and, if allowed to fall, would have fallen at our feet.
Legrand immediately took the scythe, and cleared with it a circular
space, three or four yards in diameter, just beneath the insect, and,
having accomplished this, ordered Jupiter to let go the string and come
down from the tree.

Driving a peg, with great nicety, into the ground, at the precise spot
where the beetle fell, my friend now produced from his pocket a tape
measure. Fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk, of the
tree which was nearest the peg, he unrolled it till it reached the peg,
and thence farther unrolled it, in the direction already established
by the two points of the tree and the peg, for the distance of fifty
feet--Jupiter clearing away the brambles with the scythe. At the spot
thus attained a second peg was driven, and about this, as a centre, a
rude circle, about four feet in diameter, described. Taking now a spade
himself, and giving one to Jupiter and one to me, Legrand begged us to
set about digging as quickly as possible.

To speak the truth, I had no especial relish for such amusement at any
time, and, at that particular moment, would most willingly have declined
it; for the night was coming on, and I felt much fatigued with the
exercise already taken; but I saw no mode of escape, and was fearful
of disturbing my poor friend's equanimity by a refusal. Could I have
depended, indeed, upon Jupiter's aid, I would have had no hesitation in
attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but I was too well assured
of the old negro's disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under
any circumstances, in a personal contest with his master. I made no
doubt that the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable
Southern superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had
received confirmation by the finding of the scarabæus, or, perhaps, by
Jupiter's obstinacy in maintaining it to be "a bug of real gold." A
mind disposed to lunacy would readily be led away by such
suggestions--especially if chiming in with favorite preconceived
ideas--and then I called to mind the poor fellow's speech about the
beetle's being "the index of his fortune." Upon the whole, I was sadly
vexed and puzzled, but, at length, I concluded to make a virtue of
necessity--to dig with a good will, and thus the sooner to convince the
visionary, by ocular demonstration, of the fallacy of the opinions he
entertained.

The lanterns having been lit, we all fell to work with a zeal worthy
a more rational cause; and, as the glare fell upon our persons and
implements, I could not help thinking how picturesque a group we
composed, and how strange and suspicious our labors must have appeared
to any interloper who, by chance, might have stumbled upon our
whereabouts.

We dug very steadily for two hours. Little was said; and our chief
embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog, who took exceeding
interest in our proceedings. He, at length, became so obstreperous
that we grew fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in
the vicinity;--or, rather, this was the apprehension of Legrand;--for
myself, I should have rejoiced at any interruption which might have
enabled me to get the wanderer home. The noise was, at length, very
effectually silenced by Jupiter, who, getting out of the hole with a
dogged air of deliberation, tied the brute's mouth up with one of his
suspenders, and then returned, with a grave chuckle, to his task.

When the time mentioned had expired, we had reached a depth of five
feet, and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest. A general pause
ensued, and I began to hope that the farce was at an end. Legrand,
however, although evidently much disconcerted, wiped his brow
thoughtfully and recommenced. We had excavated the entire circle of four
feet diameter, and now we slightly enlarged the limit, and went to the
farther depth of two feet. Still nothing appeared. The gold-seeker, whom
I sincerely pitied, at length clambered from the pit, with the bitterest
disappointment imprinted upon every feature, and proceeded, slowly
and reluctantly, to put on his coat, which he had thrown off at the
beginning of his labor. In the mean time I made no remark. Jupiter, at a
signal from his master, began to gather up his tools. This done, and the
dog having been unmuzzled, we turned in profound silence towards home.

We had taken, perhaps, a dozen steps in this direction, when, with a
loud oath, Legrand strode up to Jupiter, and seized him by the collar.
The astonished negro opened his eyes and mouth to the fullest extent,
let fall the spades, and fell upon his knees.

"You scoundrel," said Legrand, hissing out the syllables from between
his clenched teeth--"you infernal black villain!--speak, I tell
you!--answer me this instant, without prevarication!--which--which is
your left eye?"

"Oh, my golly, Massa Will! aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?" roared
the terrified Jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision,
and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate
dread of his master's attempt at a gouge.

"I thought so!--I knew it! hurrah!" vociferated Legrand, letting the
negro go, and executing a series of curvets and caracols, much to the
astonishment of his valet, who, arising from his knees, looked, mutely,
from his master to myself, and then from myself to his master.

"Come! we must go back," said the latter, "the game's not up yet;" and
he again led the way to the tulip-tree.

"Jupiter," said he, when we reached its foot, "come here! was the skull
nailed to the limb with the face outwards, or with the face to the
limb?"

"De face was out, massa, so dat de crows could get at de eyes good,
widout any trouble."

"Well, then, was it this eye or that through which you dropped the
beetle?"--here Legrand touched each of Jupiter's eyes.

"Twas dis eye, massa--de lef eye--jis as you tell me," and here it was
his right eye that the negro indicated.

"That will do--must try it again."

Here my friend, about whose madness I now saw, or fancied that I saw,
certain indications of method, removed the peg which marked the spot
where the beetle fell, to a spot about three inches to the westward
of its former position. Taking, now, the tape measure from the nearest
point of the trunk to the peg, as before, and continuing the extension
in a straight line to the distance of fifty feet, a spot was indicated,
removed, by several yards, from the point at which we had been digging.

Around the new position a circle, somewhat larger than in the former
instance, was now described, and we again set to work with the spades.
I was dreadfully weary, but, scarcely understanding what had occasioned
the change in my thoughts, I felt no longer any great aversion from the
labor imposed. I had become most unaccountably interested--nay, even
excited. Perhaps there was something, amid all the extravagant demeanor
of Legrand--some air of forethought, or of deliberation, which impressed
me. I dug eagerly, and now and then caught myself actually looking,
with something that very much resembled expectation, for the fancied
treasure, the vision of which had demented my unfortunate companion. At
a period when such vagaries of thought most fully possessed me, and
when we had been at work perhaps an hour and a half, we were again
interrupted by the violent howlings of the dog. His uneasiness, in the
first instance, had been, evidently, but the result of playfulness or
caprice, but he now assumed a bitter and serious tone. Upon Jupiter's
again attempting to muzzle him, he made furious resistance, and, leaping
into the hole, tore up the mould frantically with his claws. In a few
seconds he had uncovered a mass of human bones, forming two complete
skeletons, intermingled with several buttons of metal, and what appeared
to be the dust of decayed woollen. One or two strokes of a spade
upturned the blade of a large Spanish knife, and, as we dug farther,
three or four loose pieces of gold and silver coin came to light.

At sight of these the joy of Jupiter could scarcely be restrained, but
the countenance of his master wore an air of extreme disappointment He
urged us, however, to continue our exertions, and the words were hardly
uttered when I stumbled and fell forward, having caught the toe of my
boot in a large ring of iron that lay half buried in the loose earth.

We now worked in earnest, and never did I pass ten minutes of more
intense excitement. During this interval we had fairly unearthed an
oblong chest of wood, which, from its perfect preservation and
wonderful hardness, had plainly been subjected to some mineralizing
process--perhaps that of the Bi-chloride of Mercury. This box was three
feet and a half long, three feet broad, and two and a half feet deep. It
was firmly secured by bands of wrought iron, riveted, and forming a kind
of open trelliswork over the whole. On each side of the chest, near the
top, were three rings of iron--six in all--by means of which a firm hold
could be obtained by six persons. Our utmost united endeavors served
only to disturb the coffer very slightly in its bed. We at once saw
the impossibility of removing so great a weight. Luckily, the sole
fastenings of the lid consisted of two sliding bolts. These we drew
back--trembling and panting with anxiety. In an instant, a treasure of
incalculable value lay gleaming before us. As the rays of the lanterns
fell within the pit, there flashed upwards a glow and a glare, from a
confused heap of gold and of jewels, that absolutely dazzled our eyes.

I shall not pretend to describe the feelings with which I gazed.
Amazement was, of course, predominant. Legrand appeared exhausted with
excitement, and spoke very few words. Jupiter's countenance wore, for
some minutes, as deadly a pallor as it is possible, in nature of things,
for any negro's visage to assume. He seemed stupified--thunderstricken.
Presently he fell upon his knees in the pit, and, burying his naked
arms up to the elbows in gold, let them there remain, as if enjoying the
luxury of a bath. At length, with a deep sigh, he exclaimed, as if in a
soliloquy,

"And dis all cum ob de goole-bug! de putty goole bug! de poor little
goole-bug, what I boosed in dat sabage kind ob style! Aint you shamed ob
yourself, nigger?--answer me dat!"

It became necessary, at last, that I should arouse both master and valet
to the expediency of removing the treasure. It was growing late, and
it behooved us to make exertion, that we might get every thing housed
before daylight. It was difficult to say what should be done, and much
time was spent in deliberation--so confused were the ideas of all. We,
finally, lightened the box by removing two thirds of its contents,
when we were enabled, with some trouble, to raise it from the hole. The
articles taken out were deposited among the brambles, and the dog
left to guard them, with strict orders from Jupiter neither, upon any
pretence, to stir from the spot, nor to open his mouth until our return.
We then hurriedly made for home with the chest; reaching the hut in
safety, but after excessive toil, at one o'clock in the morning. Worn
out as we were, it was not in human nature to do more immediately. We
rested until two, and had supper; starting for the hills immediately
afterwards, armed with three stout sacks, which, by good luck, were upon
the premises. A little before four we arrived at the pit, divided the
remainder of the booty, as equally as might be, among us, and, leaving
the holes unfilled, again set out for the hut, at which, for the second
time, we deposited our golden burthens, just as the first faint streaks
of the dawn gleamed from over the tree-tops in the East.

We were now thoroughly broken down; but the intense excitement of the
time denied us repose. After an unquiet slumber of some three or four
hours' duration, we arose, as if by preconcert, to make examination of
our treasure.

The chest had been full to the brim, and we spent the whole day, and the
greater part of the next night, in a scrutiny of its contents. There had
been nothing like order or arrangement. Every thing had been heaped
in promiscuously. Having assorted all with care, we found ourselves
possessed of even vaster wealth than we had at first supposed. In
coin there was rather more than four hundred and fifty thousand
dollars--estimating the value of the pieces, as accurately as we could,
by the tables of the period. There was not a particle of silver. All was
gold of antique date and of great variety--French, Spanish, and German
money, with a few English guineas, and some counters, of which we had
never seen specimens before. There were several very large and heavy
coins, so worn that we could make nothing of their inscriptions. There
was no American money. The value of the jewels we found more difficulty
in estimating. There were diamonds--some of them exceedingly large and
fine--a hundred and ten in all, and not one of them small; eighteen
rubies of remarkable brilliancy;--three hundred and ten emeralds, all
very beautiful; and twenty-one sapphires, with an opal. These stones had
all been broken from their settings and thrown loose in the chest. The
settings themselves, which we picked out from among the other gold,
appeared to have been beaten up with hammers, as if to prevent
identification. Besides all this, there was a vast quantity of solid
gold ornaments;--nearly two hundred massive finger and earrings;--rich
chains--thirty of these, if I remember;--eighty-three very large and
heavy crucifixes;--five gold censers of great value;--a prodigious
golden punch bowl, ornamented with richly chased vine-leaves and
Bacchanalian figures; with two sword-handles exquisitely embossed, and
many other smaller articles which I cannot recollect. The weight of
these valuables exceeded three hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois; and
in this estimate I have not included one hundred and ninety-seven superb
gold watches; three of the number being worth each five hundred dollars,
if one. Many of them were very old, and as time keepers valueless; the
works having suffered, more or less, from corrosion--but all were richly
jewelled and in cases of great worth. We estimated the entire contents
of the chest, that night, at a million and a half of dollars; and upon
the subsequent disposal of the trinkets and jewels (a few being retained
for our own use), it was found that we had greatly undervalued the
treasure. When, at length, we had concluded our examination, and the
intense excitement of the time had, in some measure, subsided, Legrand,
who saw that I was dying with impatience for a solution of this
most extraordinary riddle, entered into a full detail of all the
circumstances connected with it.

"You remember;" said he, "the night when I handed you the rough sketch I
had made of the scarabæus. You recollect also, that I became quite vexed
at you for insisting that my drawing resembled a death's-head. When you
first made this assertion I thought you were jesting; but afterwards
I called to mind the peculiar spots on the back of the insect, and
admitted to myself that your remark had some little foundation in fact.
Still, the sneer at my graphic powers irritated me--for I am considered
a good artist--and, therefore, when you handed me the scrap of
parchment, I was about to crumple it up and throw it angrily into the
fire."

"The scrap of paper, you mean," said I.

"No; it had much of the appearance of paper, and at first I supposed it
to be such, but when I came to draw upon it, I discovered it, at once,
to be a piece of very thin parchment. It was quite dirty, you remember.
Well, as I was in the very act of crumpling it up, my glance fell
upon the sketch at which you had been looking, and you may imagine my
astonishment when I perceived, in fact, the figure of a death's-head
just where, it seemed to me, I had made the drawing of the beetle. For
a moment I was too much amazed to think with accuracy. I knew that my
design was very different in detail from this--although there was a
certain similarity in general outline. Presently I took a candle, and
seating myself at the other end of the room, proceeded to scrutinize the
parchment more closely. Upon turning it over, I saw my own sketch
upon the reverse, just as I had made it. My first idea, now, was mere
surprise at the really remarkable similarity of outline--at the singular
coincidence involved in the fact, that unknown to me, there should have
been a skull upon the other side of the parchment, immediately beneath
my figure of the scarabæus, and that this skull, not only in outline,
but in size, should so closely resemble my drawing. I say the
singularity of this coincidence absolutely stupified me for a time.
This is the usual effect of such coincidences. The mind struggles to
establish a connexion--a sequence of cause and effect--and, being
unable to do so, suffers a species of temporary paralysis. But, when I
recovered from this stupor, there dawned upon me gradually a conviction
which startled me even far more than the coincidence. I began
distinctly, positively, to remember that there had been no drawing upon
the parchment when I made my sketch of the scarabæus. I became perfectly
certain of this; for I recollected turning up first one side and then
the other, in search of the cleanest spot. Had the skull been then
there, of course I could not have failed to notice it. Here was indeed
a mystery which I felt it impossible to explain; but, even at that early
moment, there seemed to glimmer, faintly, within the most remote and
secret chambers of my intellect, a glow-worm-like conception of
that truth which last night's adventure brought to so magnificent a
demonstration. I arose at once, and putting the parchment securely away,
dismissed all farther reflection until I should be alone.

"When you had gone, and when Jupiter was fast asleep, I betook myself
to a more methodical investigation of the affair. In the first place
I considered the manner in which the parchment had come into my
possession. The spot where we discovered the scarabaeus was on the coast
of the main land, about a mile eastward of the island, and but a short
distance above high water mark. Upon my taking hold of it, it gave me a
sharp bite, which caused me to let it drop. Jupiter, with his accustomed
caution, before seizing the insect, which had flown towards him, looked
about him for a leaf, or something of that nature, by which to take hold
of it. It was at this moment that his eyes, and mine also, fell upon the
scrap of parchment, which I then supposed to be paper. It was lying half
buried in the sand, a corner sticking up. Near the spot where we found
it, I observed the remnants of the hull of what appeared to have been a
ship's long boat. The wreck seemed to have been there for a very great
while; for the resemblance to boat timbers could scarcely be traced.

"Well, Jupiter picked up the parchment, wrapped the beetle in it, and
gave it to me. Soon afterwards we turned to go home, and on the way met
Lieutenant G-. I showed him the insect, and he begged me to let him
take it to the fort. Upon my consenting, he thrust it forthwith into his
waistcoat pocket, without the parchment in which it had been wrapped,
and which I had continued to hold in my hand during his inspection.
Perhaps he dreaded my changing my mind, and thought it best to make sure
of the prize at once--you know how enthusiastic he is on all subjects
connected with Natural History. At the same time, without being
conscious of it, I must have deposited the parchment in my own pocket.

"You remember that when I went to the table, for the purpose of making
a sketch of the beetle, I found no paper where it was usually kept.
I looked in the drawer, and found none there. I searched my pockets,
hoping to find an old letter, when my hand fell upon the parchment. I
thus detail the precise mode in which it came into my possession; for
the circumstances impressed me with peculiar force.

"No doubt you will think me fanciful--but I had already established a
kind of connexion. I had put together two links of a great chain. There
was a boat lying upon a sea-coast, and not far from the boat was a
parchment--not a paper--with a skull depicted upon it. You will,
of course, ask 'where is the connexion?' I reply that the skull, or
death's-head, is the well-known emblem of the pirate. The flag of the
death's head is hoisted in all engagements.

"I have said that the scrap was parchment, and not paper. Parchment
is durable--almost imperishable. Matters of little moment are rarely
consigned to parchment; since, for the mere ordinary purposes of drawing
or writing, it is not nearly so well adapted as paper. This reflection
suggested some meaning--some relevancy--in the death's-head. I did not
fail to observe, also, the form of the parchment. Although one of its
corners had been, by some accident, destroyed, it could be seen that the
original form was oblong. It was just such a slip, indeed, as might
have been chosen for a memorandum--for a record of something to be long
remembered and carefully preserved."

"But," I interposed, "you say that the skull was not upon the parchment
when you made the drawing of the beetle. How then do you trace any
connexion between the boat and the skull--since this latter, according
to your own admission, must have been designed (God only knows how or by
whom) at some period subsequent to your sketching the scarabæus?"

"Ah, hereupon turns the whole mystery; although the secret, at this
point, I had comparatively little difficulty in solving. My steps were
sure, and could afford but a single result. I reasoned, for example,
thus: When I drew the scarabæus, there was no skull apparent upon
the parchment. When I had completed the drawing I gave it to you, and
observed you narrowly until you returned it. You, therefore, did not
design the skull, and no one else was present to do it. Then it was not
done by human agency. And nevertheless it was done.

"At this stage of my reflections I endeavored to remember, and did
remember, with entire distinctness, every incident which occurred about
the period in question. The weather was chilly (oh rare and happy
accident!), and a fire was blazing upon the hearth. I was heated with
exercise and sat near the table. You, however, had drawn a chair close
to the chimney. Just as I placed the parchment in your hand, and as you
were in the act of inspecting it, Wolf, the Newfoundland, entered,
and leaped upon your shoulders. With your left hand you caressed him and
kept him off, while your right, holding the parchment, was permitted to
fall listlessly between your knees, and in close proximity to the fire.
At one moment I thought the blaze had caught it, and was about to
caution you, but, before I could speak, you had withdrawn it, and were
engaged in its examination. When I considered all these particulars, I
doubted not for a moment that heat had been the agent in bringing to
light, upon the parchment, the skull which I saw designed upon it. You
are well aware that chemical preparations exist, and have existed time
out of mind, by means of which it is possible to write upon either paper
or vellum, so that the characters shall become visible only when
subjected to the action of fire. Zaffre, digested in aqua regia, and
diluted with four times its weight of water, is sometimes employed; a
green tint results. The regulus of cobalt, dissolved in spirit of nitre,
gives a red. These colors disappear at longer or shorter intervals after
the material written upon cools, but again become apparent upon the
re-application of heat.

"I now scrutinized the death's-head with care. Its outer edges--the
edges of the drawing nearest the edge of the vellum--were far more
distinct than the others. It was clear that the action of the caloric
had been imperfect or unequal. I immediately kindled a fire, and
subjected every portion of the parchment to a glowing heat. At first,
the only effect was the strengthening of the faint lines in the skull;
but, upon persevering in the experiment, there became visible, at
the corner of the slip, diagonally opposite to the spot in which the
death's-head was delineated, the figure of what I at first supposed to
be a goat. A closer scrutiny, however, satisfied me that it was intended
for a kid."

"Ha! ha!" said I, "to be sure I have no right to laugh at you--a million
and a half of money is too serious a matter for mirth--but you are not
about to establish a third link in your chain--you will not find any
especial connexion between your pirates and a goat--pirates, you know,
have nothing to do with goats; they appertain to the farming interest."

"But I have just said that the figure was not that of a goat."

"Well, a kid then--pretty much the same thing."

"Pretty much, but not altogether," said Legrand. "You may have heard of
one Captain Kidd. I at once looked upon the figure of the animal as a
kind of punning or hieroglyphical signature. I say signature; because
its position upon the vellum suggested this idea. The death's-head at
the corner diagonally opposite, had, in the same manner, the air of a
stamp, or seal. But I was sorely put out by the absence of all else--of
the body to my imagined instrument--of the text for my context."

"I presume you expected to find a letter between the stamp and the
signature."

"Something of that kind. The fact is, I felt irresistibly impressed with
a presentiment of some vast good fortune impending. I can scarcely
say why. Perhaps, after all, it was rather a desire than an actual
belief;--but do you know that Jupiter's silly words, about the bug
being of solid gold, had a remarkable effect upon my fancy? And then the
series of accidents and coincidences--these were so very extraordinary.
Do you observe how mere an accident it was that these events should have
occurred upon the sole day of all the year in which it has been, or may
be, sufficiently cool for fire, and that without the fire, or without
the intervention of the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared,
I should never have become aware of the death's-head, and so never the
possessor of the treasure?"

"But proceed--I am all impatience."

"Well; you have heard, of course, the many stories current--the thousand
vague rumors afloat about money buried, somewhere upon the Atlantic
coast, by Kidd and his associates. These rumors must have had some
foundation in fact. And that the rumors have existed so long and so
continuous, could have resulted, it appeared to me, only from the
circumstance of the buried treasure still remaining entombed. Had Kidd
concealed his plunder for a time, and afterwards reclaimed it, the
rumors would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form.
You will observe that the stories told are all about money-seekers,
not about money-finders. Had the pirate recovered his money, there the
affair would have dropped. It seemed to me that some accident--say the
loss of a memorandum indicating its locality--had deprived him of the
means of recovering it, and that this accident had become known to his
followers, who otherwise might never have heard that treasure had been
concealed at all, and who, busying themselves in vain, because unguided
attempts, to regain it, had given first birth, and then universal
currency, to the reports which are now so common. Have you ever heard of
any important treasure being unearthed along the coast?"

"Never."

"But that Kidd's accumulations were immense, is well known. I took it
for granted, therefore, that the earth still held them; and you will
scarcely be surprised when I tell you that I felt a hope, nearly
amounting to certainty, that the parchment so strangely found, involved
a lost record of the place of deposit."

"But how did you proceed?"

"I held the vellum again to the fire, after increasing the heat; but
nothing appeared. I now thought it possible that the coating of dirt
might have something to do with the failure; so I carefully rinsed the
parchment by pouring warm water over it, and, having done this, I
placed it in a tin pan, with the skull downwards, and put the pan upon
a furnace of lighted charcoal. In a few minutes, the pan having become
thoroughly heated, I removed the slip, and, to my inexpressible joy,
found it spotted, in several places, with what appeared to be figures
arranged in lines. Again I placed it in the pan, and suffered it to
remain another minute. Upon taking it off, the whole was just as you see
it now." Here Legrand, having re-heated the parchment, submitted it to
my inspection. The following characters were rudely traced, in a red
tint, between the death's-head and the goat:

  "53‡‡†305))6*;4826)4‡)4‡);806*;48†8¶60))85;1‡);:‡
  *8†83(88)5*†;46(;88*96*?;8)*‡(;485);5*†2:*‡(;4956*
  2(5*--4)8¶8*;4069285);)6†8)4‡‡;1(‡9;48081;8:8‡1;4
  8†85;4)485†528806*81(‡9;48;(88;4(‡?34;48)4‡;161;:
  188;‡?;"

"But," said I, returning him the slip, "I am as much in the dark as
ever. Were all the jewels of Golconda awaiting me upon my solution of
this enigma, I am quite sure that I should be unable to earn them."

"And yet," said Legrand, "the solution is by no means so difficult as
you might be lead to imagine from the first hasty inspection of the
characters. These characters, as any one might readily guess, form a
cipher--that is to say, they convey a meaning; but then, from what is
known of Kidd, I could not suppose him capable of constructing any of
the more abstruse cryptographs. I made up my mind, at once, that this
was of a simple species--such, however, as would appear, to the crude
intellect of the sailor, absolutely insoluble without the key."

"And you really solved it?"

"Readily; I have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times
greater. Circumstances, and a certain bias of mind, have led me to
take interest in such riddles, and it may well be doubted whether human
ingenuity can construct an enigma of the kind which human ingenuity may
not, by proper application, resolve. In fact, having once established
connected and legible characters, I scarcely gave a thought to the mere
difficulty of developing their import.

"In the present case--indeed in all cases of secret writing--the first
question regards the language of the cipher; for the principles of
solution, so far, especially, as the more simple ciphers are concerned,
depend upon, and are varied by, the genius of the particular idiom.
In general, there is no alternative but experiment (directed by
probabilities) of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution,
until the true one be attained. But, with the cipher now before us, all
difficulty was removed by the signature. The pun upon the word 'Kidd'
is appreciable in no other language than the English. But for this
consideration I should have begun my attempts with the Spanish and
French, as the tongues in which a secret of this kind would most
naturally have been written by a pirate of the Spanish main. As it was,
I assumed the cryptograph to be English.

"You observe there are no divisions between the words. Had there been
divisions, the task would have been comparatively easy. In such case
I should have commenced with a collation and analysis of the shorter
words, and, had a word of a single letter occurred, as is most likely,
(a or I, for example,) I should have considered the solution as assured.
But, there being no division, my first step was to ascertain the
predominant letters, as well as the least frequent. Counting all, I
constructed a table, thus:

Of the character 8 there are 33.

                          ;        "     26.
                          4        "     19.
                        ‡ )        "     16.
                          *        "     13.
                          5        "     12.
                          6        "     11.
                        † 1        "      8.
                          0        "      6.
                        9 2        "      5.
                        : 3        "      4.
                          ?        "      3.
                          ¶        "      2.
                         -.        "      1.

"Now, in English, the letter which most frequently occurs is e.
Afterwards, succession runs thus: _a o i d h n r s t u y c f g l m w b k
p q x z_. _E_ predominates so remarkably that an individual sentence of
any length is rarely seen, in which it is not the prevailing character.

"Here, then, we leave, in the very beginning, the groundwork for
something more than a mere guess. The general use which may be made of
the table is obvious--but, in this particular cipher, we shall only very
partially require its aid. As our predominant character is 8, we will
commence by assuming it as the _e_ of the natural alphabet. To verify
the supposition, let us observe if the 8 be seen often in couples--for
_e_ is doubled with great frequency in English--in such words, for
example, as 'meet,' '.fleet,' 'speed,' 'seen,' been,' 'agree,' &c. In
the present instance we see it doubled no less than five times, although
the cryptograph is brief.

"Let us assume 8, then, as _e_. Now, of all _words_ in the language,
'the' is most usual; let us see, therefore, whether there are not
repetitions of any three characters, in the same order of collocation,
the last of them being 8. If we discover repetitions of such letters,
so arranged, they will most probably represent the word 'the.' Upon
inspection, we find no less than seven such arrangements, the characters
being;48. We may, therefore, assume that; represents _t_, 4 represents
_h_, and 8 represents _e_--the last being now well confirmed. Thus a
great step has been taken.

"But, having established a single word, we are enabled to establish
a vastly important point; that is to say, several commencements and
terminations of other words. Let us refer, for example, to the last
instance but one, in which the combination;48 occurs--not far from
the end of the cipher. We know that the; immediately ensuing is the
commencement of a word, and, of the six characters succeeding this
'the,' we are cognizant of no less than five. Let us set these
characters down, thus, by the letters we know them to represent, leaving
a space for the unknown--

t eeth.

"Here we are enabled, at once, to discard the 'th,' as forming no
portion of the word commencing with the first t; since, by experiment
of the entire alphabet for a letter adapted to the vacancy, we perceive
that no word can be formed of which this _th_ can be a part. We are thus
narrowed into

t ee,

and, going through the alphabet, if necessary, as before, we arrive
at the word 'tree,' as the sole possible reading. We thus gain
another letter, _r_, represented by (, with the words 'the tree' in
juxtaposition.

"Looking beyond these words, for a short distance, we again see
the combination;48, and employ it by way of _termination_ to what
immediately precedes. We have thus this arrangement:

the tree;4(‡?34 the,

or, substituting the natural letters, where known, it reads thus:

the tree thr‡?3h the.

"Now, if, in place of the unknown characters, we leave blank spaces, or
substitute dots, we read thus:

the tree thr...h the,

when the word '_through_' makes itself evident at once. But this
discovery gives us three new letters, _o_, _u_ and _g_, represented by
‡? and 3.

"Looking now, narrowly, through the cipher for combinations of known
characters, we find, not very far from the beginning, this arrangement,

83(88, or egree,

which, plainly, is the conclusion of the word 'degree,' and gives us
another letter, _d_, represented by †.

"Four letters beyond the word 'degree,' we perceive the combination

;46(;88.

"Translating the known characters, and representing the unknown by dots,
as before, we read thus: th rtee. an arrangement immediately suggestive
of the word 'thirteen,' and again furnishing us with two new characters,
_i_ and _n_, represented by 6 and *.

"Referring, now, to the beginning of the cryptograph, we find the
combination,

53‡‡†.

"Translating, as before, we obtain

good,

which assures us that the first letter is _A_, and that the first two
words are 'A good.'

"It is now time that we arrange our key, as far as discovered, in a
tabular form, to avoid confusion. It will stand thus:

                5 represents      a
                †       "         d
                8       "         e
                3       "         g
                4       "         h
                6       "         i
                *       "         n
                ‡       "         o
                (       "         r
                ;       "         t

"We have, therefore, no less than ten of the most important letters
represented, and it will be unnecessary to proceed with the details of
the solution. I have said enough to convince you that ciphers of this
nature are readily soluble, and to give you some insight into the
rationale of their development. But be assured that the specimen before
us appertains to the very simplest species of cryptograph. It now only
remains to give you the full translation of the characters upon the
parchment, as unriddled. Here it is:

"'_A good glass in the bishop's hostel in the devil's seat forty-one
degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh
limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death's-head a bee line
from the tree through the shot fifty feet out_.'"

"But," said I, "the enigma seems still in as bad a condition as ever.
How is it possible to extort a meaning from all this jargon about
'devil's seats,' 'death's heads,' and 'bishop's hotels?'"

"I confess," replied Legrand, "that the matter still wears a serious
aspect, when regarded with a casual glance. My first endeavor was
to divide the sentence into the natural division intended by the
cryptographist."

"You mean, to punctuate it?"

"Something of that kind."

"But how was it possible to effect this?"

"I reflected that it had been a point with the writer to run his words
together without division, so as to increase the difficulty of solution.
Now, a not over-acute man, in pursuing such an object would be nearly
certain to overdo the matter. When, in the course of his composition, he
arrived at a break in his subject which would naturally require a pause,
or a point, he would be exceedingly apt to run his characters, at this
place, more than usually close together. If you will observe the MS., in
the present instance, you will easily detect five such cases of unusual
crowding. Acting upon this hint, I made the division thus: 'A good
glass in the Bishop's hostel in the Devil's seat--forty-one degrees and
thirteen minutes--northeast and by north--main branch seventh limb east
side--shoot from the left eye of the death's-head--a bee-line from the
tree through the shot fifty feet out.'"

"Even this division," said I, "leaves me still in the dark."

"It left me also in the dark," replied Legrand, "for a few days; during
which I made diligent inquiry, in the neighborhood of Sullivan's Island,
for any building which went by the name of the 'Bishop's Hotel;' for, of
course, I dropped the obsolete word 'hostel.' Gaining no information on
the subject, I was on the point of extending my sphere of search, and
proceeding in a more systematic manner, when, one morning, it entered
into my head, quite suddenly, that this 'Bishop's Hostel' might have
some reference to an old family, of the name of Bessop, which, time out
of mind, had held possession of an ancient manor-house, about four
miles to the northward of the Island. I accordingly went over to the
plantation, and re-instituted my inquiries among the older negroes of
the place. At length one of the most aged of the women said that she
had heard of such a place as Bessop's Castle, and thought that she could
guide me to it, but that it was not a castle nor a tavern, but a high
rock.

"I offered to pay her well for her trouble, and, after some demur,
she consented to accompany me to the spot. We found it without much
difficulty, when, dismissing her, I proceeded to examine the place. The
'castle' consisted of an irregular assemblage of cliffs and rocks--one
of the latter being quite remarkable for its height as well as for its
insulated and artificial appearance I clambered to its apex, and then
felt much at a loss as to what should be next done.

"While I was busied in reflection, my eyes fell upon a narrow ledge in
the eastern face of the rock, perhaps a yard below the summit upon which
I stood. This ledge projected about eighteen inches, and was not more
than a foot wide, while a niche in the cliff just above it, gave it
a rude resemblance to one of the hollow-backed chairs used by our
ancestors. I made no doubt that here was the 'devil's seat' alluded to
in the MS., and now I seemed to grasp the full secret of the riddle.

"The 'good glass,' I knew, could have reference to nothing but a
telescope; for the word 'glass' is rarely employed in any other sense
by seamen. Now here, I at once saw, was a telescope to be used, and a
definite point of view, admitting no variation, from which to use it.
Nor did I hesitate to believe that the phrases, "forty-one degrees
and thirteen minutes,' and 'northeast and by north,' were intended as
directions for the levelling of the glass. Greatly excited by these
discoveries, I hurried home, procured a telescope, and returned to the
rock.

"I let myself down to the ledge, and found that it was impossible to
retain a seat upon it except in one particular position. This fact
confirmed my preconceived idea. I proceeded to use the glass. Of course,
the 'forty-one degrees and thirteen minutes' could allude to nothing but
elevation above the visible horizon, since the horizontal direction was
clearly indicated by the words, 'northeast and by north.' This latter
direction I at once established by means of a pocket-compass; then,
pointing the glass as nearly at an angle of forty-one degrees of
elevation as I could do it by guess, I moved it cautiously up or down,
until my attention was arrested by a circular rift or opening in the
foliage of a large tree that overtopped its fellows in the distance.
In the centre of this rift I perceived a white spot, but could not, at
first, distinguish what it was. Adjusting the focus of the telescope, I
again looked, and now made it out to be a human skull.

"Upon this discovery I was so sanguine as to consider the enigma solved;
for the phrase 'main branch, seventh limb, east side,' could refer only
to the position of the skull upon the tree, while 'shoot from the left
eye of the death's head' admitted, also, of but one interpretation, in
regard to a search for buried treasure. I perceived that the design was
to drop a bullet from the left eye of the skull, and that a bee-line,
or, in other words, a straight line, drawn from the nearest point of
the trunk through 'the shot,' (or the spot where the bullet fell,) and
thence extended to a distance of fifty feet, would indicate a definite
point--and beneath this point I thought it at least possible that a
deposit of value lay concealed."

"All this," I said, "is exceedingly clear, and, although ingenious,
still simple and explicit. When you left the Bishop's Hotel, what then?"

"Why, having carefully taken the bearings of the tree, I turned
homewards. The instant that I left 'the devil's seat,' however, the
circular rift vanished; nor could I get a glimpse of it afterwards, turn
as I would. What seems to me the chief ingenuity in this whole business,
is the fact (for repeated experiment has convinced me it is a fact) that
the circular opening in question is visible from no other attainable
point of view than that afforded by the narrow ledge upon the face of
the rock.

"In this expedition to the 'Bishop's Hotel' I had been attended
by Jupiter, who had, no doubt, observed, for some weeks past, the
abstraction of my demeanor, and took especial care not to leave me
alone. But, on the next day, getting up very early, I contrived to give
him the slip, and went into the hills in search of the tree. After much
toil I found it. When I came home at night my valet proposed to give
me a flogging. With the rest of the adventure I believe you are as well
acquainted as myself."

"I suppose," said I, "you missed the spot, in the first attempt at
digging, through Jupiter's stupidity in letting the bug fall through the
right instead of through the left eye of the skull."

"Precisely. This mistake made a difference of about two inches and a
half in the 'shot'--that is to say, in the position of the peg nearest
the tree; and had the treasure been beneath the 'shot,' the error would
have been of little moment; but 'the shot,' together with the nearest
point of the tree, were merely two points for the establishment of
a line of direction; of course the error, however trivial in the
beginning, increased as we proceeded with the line, and by the time
we had gone fifty feet, threw us quite off the scent. But for my
deep-seated impressions that treasure was here somewhere actually
buried, we might have had all our labor in vain."

"But your grandiloquence, and your conduct in swinging the beetle--how
excessively odd! I was sure you were mad. And why did you insist upon
letting fall the bug, instead of a bullet, from the skull?"

"Why, to be frank, I felt somewhat annoyed by your evident suspicions
touching my sanity, and so resolved to punish you quietly, in my own
way, by a little bit of sober mystification. For this reason I swung
the beetle, and for this reason I let it fall it from the tree. An
observation of yours about its great weight suggested the latter idea."

"Yes, I perceive; and now there is only one point which puzzles me. What
are we to make of the skeletons found in the hole?"

"That is a question I am no more able to answer than yourself. There
seems, however, only one plausible way of accounting for them--and yet
it is dreadful to believe in such atrocity as my suggestion would imply.
It is clear that Kidd--if Kidd indeed secreted this treasure, which I
doubt not--it is clear that he must have had assistance in the labor.
But this labor concluded, he may have thought it expedient to remove
all participants in his secret. Perhaps a couple of blows with a mattock
were sufficient, while his coadjutors were busy in the pit; perhaps it
required a dozen--who shall tell?"




FOUR BEASTS IN ONE--THE HOMO-CAMELEOPARD

                     Chacun a ses vertus.
                        --_Crebillon's Xerxes._

ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES is very generally looked upon as the Gog of the
prophet Ezekiel. This honor is, however, more properly attributable to
Cambyses, the son of Cyrus. And, indeed, the character of the
Syrian monarch does by no means stand in need of any adventitious
embellishment. His accession to the throne, or rather his usurpation of
the sovereignty, a hundred and seventy-one years before the coming
of Christ; his attempt to plunder the temple of Diana at Ephesus; his
implacable hostility to the Jews; his pollution of the Holy of Holies;
and his miserable death at Taba, after a tumultuous reign of eleven
years, are circumstances of a prominent kind, and therefore more
generally noticed by the historians of his time than the impious,
dastardly, cruel, silly, and whimsical achievements which make up the
sum total of his private life and reputation.

Let us suppose, gentle reader, that it is now the year of the world
three thousand eight hundred and thirty, and let us, for a few minutes,
imagine ourselves at that most grotesque habitation of man, the
remarkable city of Antioch. To be sure there were, in Syria and other
countries, sixteen cities of that appellation, besides the one to which
I more particularly allude. But ours is that which went by the name of
Antiochia Epidaphne, from its vicinity to the little village of Daphne,
where stood a temple to that divinity. It was built (although about this
matter there is some dispute) by Seleucus Nicanor, the first king of the
country after Alexander the Great, in memory of his father Antiochus,
and became immediately the residence of the Syrian monarchy. In the
flourishing times of the Roman Empire, it was the ordinary station of
the prefect of the eastern provinces; and many of the emperors of the
queen city (among whom may be mentioned, especially, Verus and Valens)
spent here the greater part of their time. But I perceive we have
arrived at the city itself. Let us ascend this battlement, and throw our
eyes upon the town and neighboring country.

"What broad and rapid river is that which forces its way, with
innumerable falls, through the mountainous wilderness, and finally
through the wilderness of buildings?"

That is the Orontes, and it is the only water in sight, with the
exception of the Mediterranean, which stretches, like a broad mirror,
about twelve miles off to the southward. Every one has seen the
Mediterranean; but let me tell you, there are few who have had a peep at
Antioch. By few, I mean, few who, like you and me, have had, at the same
time, the advantages of a modern education. Therefore cease to regard
that sea, and give your whole attention to the mass of houses that lie
beneath us. You will remember that it is now the year of the world three
thousand eight hundred and thirty. Were it later--for example, were
it the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and forty-five, we should be
deprived of this extraordinary spectacle. In the nineteenth century
Antioch is--that is to say, Antioch will be--in a lamentable state
of decay. It will have been, by that time, totally destroyed, at three
different periods, by three successive earthquakes. Indeed, to say the
truth, what little of its former self may then remain, will be found in
so desolate and ruinous a state that the patriarch shall have removed
his residence to Damascus. This is well. I see you profit by my advice,
and are making the most of your time in inspecting the premises--in

-satisfying your eyes

With the memorials and the things of fame

That most renown this city.--

I beg pardon; I had forgotten that Shakespeare will not flourish for
seventeen hundred and fifty years to come. But does not the appearance
of Epidaphne justify me in calling it grotesque?

"It is well fortified; and in this respect is as much indebted to nature
as to art."

Very true.

"There are a prodigious number of stately palaces."

There are.

"And the numerous temples, sumptuous and magnificent, may bear
comparison with the most lauded of antiquity."

All this I must acknowledge. Still there is an infinity of mud huts, and
abominable hovels. We cannot help perceiving abundance of filth in
every kennel, and, were it not for the over-powering fumes of idolatrous
incense, I have no doubt we should find a most intolerable stench.
Did you ever behold streets so insufferably narrow, or houses so
miraculously tall? What gloom their shadows cast upon the ground! It
is well the swinging lamps in those endless colonnades are kept burning
throughout the day; we should otherwise have the darkness of Egypt in
the time of her desolation.

"It is certainly a strange place! What is the meaning of yonder singular
building? See! it towers above all others, and lies to the eastward of
what I take to be the royal palace."

That is the new Temple of the Sun, who is adored in Syria under the
title of Elah Gabalah. Hereafter a very notorious Roman Emperor
will institute this worship in Rome, and thence derive a cognomen,
Heliogabalus. I dare say you would like to take a peep at the divinity
of the temple. You need not look up at the heavens; his Sunship is not
there--at least not the Sunship adored by the Syrians. That deity will
be found in the interior of yonder building. He is worshipped under the
figure of a large stone pillar terminating at the summit in a cone or
pyramid, whereby is denoted Fire.

"Hark--behold!--who can those ridiculous beings be, half naked, with
their faces painted, shouting and gesticulating to the rabble?"

Some few are mountebanks. Others more particularly belong to the race
of philosophers. The greatest portion, however--those especially who
belabor the populace with clubs--are the principal courtiers of the
palace, executing as in duty bound, some laudable comicality of the
king's.

"But what have we here? Heavens! the town is swarming with wild beasts!
How terrible a spectacle!--how dangerous a peculiarity!"

Terrible, if you please; but not in the least degree dangerous. Each
animal if you will take the pains to observe, is following, very
quietly, in the wake of its master. Some few, to be sure, are led with a
rope about the neck, but these are chiefly the lesser or timid species.
The lion, the tiger, and the leopard are entirely without restraint.
They have been trained without difficulty to their present
profession, and attend upon their respective owners in the capacity of
valets-de-chambre. It is true, there are occasions when Nature asserts
her violated dominions;--but then the devouring of a man-at-arms, or the
throttling of a consecrated bull, is a circumstance of too little moment
to be more than hinted at in Epidaphne.

"But what extraordinary tumult do I hear? Surely this is a loud noise
even for Antioch! It argues some commotion of unusual interest."

Yes--undoubtedly. The king has ordered some novel spectacle--some
gladiatorial exhibition at the hippodrome--or perhaps the massacre of
the Scythian prisoners--or the conflagration of his new palace--or the
tearing down of a handsome temple--or, indeed, a bonfire of a few Jews.
The uproar increases. Shouts of laughter ascend the skies. The air
becomes dissonant with wind instruments, and horrible with clamor of a
million throats. Let us descend, for the love of fun, and see what is
going on! This way--be careful! Here we are in the principal street,
which is called the street of Timarchus. The sea of people is coming
this way, and we shall find a difficulty in stemming the tide. They are
pouring through the alley of Heraclides, which leads directly from the
palace;--therefore the king is most probably among the rioters. Yes;--I
hear the shouts of the herald proclaiming his approach in the pompous
phraseology of the East. We shall have a glimpse of his person as
he passes by the temple of Ashimah. Let us ensconce ourselves in the
vestibule of the sanctuary; he will be here anon. In the meantime let
us survey this image. What is it? Oh! it is the god Ashimah in proper
person. You perceive, however, that he is neither a lamb, nor a
goat, nor a satyr, neither has he much resemblance to the Pan of the
Arcadians. Yet all these appearances have been given--I beg pardon--will
be given--by the learned of future ages, to the Ashimah of the Syrians.
Put on your spectacles, and tell me what it is. What is it?

"Bless me! it is an ape!"

True--a baboon; but by no means the less a deity. His name is a
derivation of the Greek Simia--what great fools are antiquarians! But
see!--see!--yonder scampers a ragged little urchin. Where is he going?
What is he bawling about? What does he say? Oh! he says the king
is coming in triumph; that he is dressed in state; that he has just
finished putting to death, with his own hand, a thousand chained
Israelitish prisoners! For this exploit the ragamuffin is lauding him to
the skies. Hark! here comes a troop of a similar description. They have
made a Latin hymn upon the valor of the king, and are singing it as they
go:

Mille, mille, mille,

Mille, mille, mille,

Decollavimus, unus homo!

Mille, mille, mille, mille, decollavimus!

Mille, mille, mille,

Vivat qui mille mille occidit!

Tantum vini habet nemo

Quantum sanguinis effudit!(*1)

Which may be thus paraphrased:

A thousand, a thousand, a thousand,

A thousand, a thousand, a thousand,

We, with one warrior, have slain!

A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand.

Sing a thousand over again!

Soho!--let us sing

Long life to our king,

Who knocked over a thousand so fine!

Soho!--let us roar,

He has given us more

Red gallons of gore

Than all Syria can furnish of wine!

"Do you hear that flourish of trumpets?"

Yes: the king is coming! See! the people are aghast with admiration,
and lift up their eyes to the heavens in reverence. He comes;--he is
coming;--there he is!

"Who?--where?--the king?--do not behold him--cannot say that I perceive
him."

Then you must be blind.

"Very possible. Still I see nothing but a tumultuous mob of idiots
and madmen, who are busy in prostrating themselves before a gigantic
cameleopard, and endeavoring to obtain a kiss of the animal's hoofs.
See! the beast has very justly kicked one of the rabble over--and
another--and another--and another. Indeed, I cannot help admiring the
animal for the excellent use he is making of his feet."

Rabble, indeed!--why these are the noble and free citizens of Epidaphne!
Beasts, did you say?--take care that you are not overheard. Do you not
perceive that the animal has the visage of a man? Why, my dear sir,
that cameleopard is no other than Antiochus Epiphanes, Antiochus the
Illustrious, King of Syria, and the most potent of all the autocrats
of the East! It is true, that he is entitled, at times, Antiochus
Epimanes--Antiochus the madman--but that is because all people have not
the capacity to appreciate his merits. It is also certain that he is at
present ensconced in the hide of a beast, and is doing his best to play
the part of a cameleopard; but this is done for the better sustaining
his dignity as king. Besides, the monarch is of gigantic stature,
and the dress is therefore neither unbecoming nor over large. We may,
however, presume he would not have adopted it but for some occasion
of especial state. Such, you will allow, is the massacre of a thousand
Jews. With how superior a dignity the monarch perambulates on all fours!
His tail, you perceive, is held aloft by his two principal concubines,
Elline and Argelais; and his whole appearance would be infinitely
prepossessing, were it not for the protuberance of his eyes, which will
certainly start out of his head, and the queer color of his face, which
has become nondescript from the quantity of wine he has swallowed. Let
us follow him to the hippodrome, whither he is proceeding, and listen to
the song of triumph which he is commencing:

Who is king but Epiphanes?

Say--do you know?

Who is king but Epiphanes?

Bravo!--bravo!

There is none but Epiphanes,

No--there is none:

So tear down the temples,

And put out the sun!

Well and strenuously sung! The populace are hailing him 'Prince of
Poets,' as well as 'Glory of the East,' 'Delight of the Universe,' and
'Most Remarkable of Cameleopards.' They have encored his effusion,
and do you hear?--he is singing it over again. When he arrives at the
hippodrome, he will be crowned with the poetic wreath, in anticipation
of his victory at the approaching Olympics.

"But, good Jupiter! what is the matter in the crowd behind us?"

Behind us, did you say?--oh! ah!--I perceive. My friend, it is well
that you spoke in time. Let us get into a place of safety as soon as
possible. Here!--let us conceal ourselves in the arch of this aqueduct,
and I will inform you presently of the origin of the commotion. It has
turned out as I have been anticipating. The singular appearance of the
cameleopard and the head of a man, has, it seems, given offence to
the notions of propriety entertained, in general, by the wild animals
domesticated in the city. A mutiny has been the result; and, as is usual
upon such occasions, all human efforts will be of no avail in quelling
the mob. Several of the Syrians have already been devoured; but the
general voice of the four-footed patriots seems to be for eating up the
cameleopard. 'The Prince of Poets,' therefore, is upon his hinder legs,
running for his life. His courtiers have left him in the lurch, and
his concubines have followed so excellent an example. 'Delight of the
Universe,' thou art in a sad predicament! 'Glory of the East,' thou art
in danger of mastication! Therefore never regard so piteously thy tail;
it will undoubtedly be draggled in the mud, and for this there is no
help. Look not behind thee, then, at its unavoidable degradation; but
take courage, ply thy legs with vigor, and scud for the hippodrome!
Remember that thou art Antiochus Epiphanes. Antiochus the
Illustrious!--also 'Prince of Poets,' 'Glory of the East,' 'Delight of
the Universe,' and 'Most Remarkable of Cameleopards!' Heavens! what a
power of speed thou art displaying! What a capacity for leg-bail
thou art developing! Run, Prince!--Bravo, Epiphanes! Well done,
Cameleopard!--Glorious Antiochus!--He runs!--he leaps!--he flies! Like
an arrow from a catapult he approaches the hippodrome! He leaps!--he
shrieks!--he is there! This is well; for hadst thou, 'Glory of
the East,' been half a second longer in reaching the gates of the
Amphitheatre, there is not a bear's cub in Epidaphne that would not
have had a nibble at thy carcase. Let us be off--let us take our
departure!--for we shall find our delicate modern ears unable to endure
the vast uproar which is about to commence in celebration of the king's
escape! Listen! it has already commenced. See!--the whole town is
topsy-turvy.

"Surely this is the most populous city of the East! What a wilderness
of people! what a jumble of all ranks and ages! what a multiplicity
of sects and nations! what a variety of costumes! what a Babel of
languages! what a screaming of beasts! what a tinkling of instruments!
what a parcel of philosophers!"

Come let us be off.

"Stay a moment! I see a vast hubbub in the hippodrome; what is the
meaning of it, I beseech you?"

That?--oh, nothing! The noble and free citizens of Epidaphne being, as
they declare, well satisfied of the faith, valor, wisdom, and divinity
of their king, and having, moreover, been eye-witnesses of his late
superhuman agility, do think it no more than their duty to invest his
brows (in addition to the poetic crown) with the wreath of victory
in the footrace--a wreath which it is evident he must obtain at the
celebration of the next Olympiad, and which, therefore, they now give
him in advance.


Footnotes--Four Beasts

(*1) Flavius Vospicus says, that the hymn here introduced was sung by
the rabble upon the occasion of Aurelian, in the Sarmatic war, having
slain, with his own hand, nine hundred and fifty of the enemy.




THE MURDERS IN THE RUE MORGUE

  What song the Syrens sang, or what name Achilles assumed when he hid
  himself among women, although puzzling questions, are not beyond
  _all_ conjecture.

                    --_Sir Thomas Browne._


The mental features discoursed of as the analytical, are, in themselves,
but little susceptible of analysis. We appreciate them only in their
effects. We know of them, among other things, that they are always to
their possessor, when inordinately possessed, a source of the liveliest
enjoyment. As the strong man exults in his physical ability, delighting
in such exercises as call his muscles into action, so glories the
analyst in that moral activity which _disentangles._ He derives pleasure
from even the most trivial occupations bringing his talent into play. He
is fond of enigmas, of conundrums, of hieroglyphics; exhibiting in his
solutions of each a degree of _acumen_ which appears to the ordinary
apprehension præternatural. His results, brought about by the very soul
and essence of method, have, in truth, the whole air of intuition.

The faculty of re-solution is possibly much invigorated by mathematical
study, and especially by that highest branch of it which, unjustly, and
merely on account of its retrograde operations, has been called, as
if _par excellence_, analysis. Yet to calculate is not in itself to
analyse. A chess-player, for example, does the one without effort at
the other. It follows that the game of chess, in its effects upon mental
character, is greatly misunderstood. I am not now writing a treatise,
but simply prefacing a somewhat peculiar narrative by observations very
much at random; I will, therefore, take occasion to assert that the
higher powers of the reflective intellect are more decidedly and more
usefully tasked by the unostentatious game of draughts than by all the
elaborate frivolity of chess. In this latter, where the pieces have
different and _bizarre_ motions, with various and variable values, what
is only complex is mistaken (a not unusual error) for what is profound.
The _attention_ is here called powerfully into play. If it flag for an
instant, an oversight is committed resulting in injury or defeat. The
possible moves being not only manifold but involute, the chances of such
oversights are multiplied; and in nine cases out of ten it is the
more concentrative rather than the more acute player who conquers. In
draughts, on the contrary, where the moves are _unique_ and have but
little variation, the probabilities of inadvertence are diminished, and
the mere attention being left comparatively unemployed, what advantages
are obtained by either party are obtained by superior _acumen_. To be
less abstract--Let us suppose a game of draughts where the pieces are
reduced to four kings, and where, of course, no oversight is to be
expected. It is obvious that here the victory can be decided (the
players being at all equal) only by some _recherché_ movement, the
result of some strong exertion of the intellect. Deprived of ordinary
resources, the analyst throws himself into the spirit of his opponent,
identifies himself therewith, and not unfrequently sees thus, at a
glance, the sole methods (sometime indeed absurdly simple ones) by which
he may seduce into error or hurry into miscalculation.

Whist has long been noted for its influence upon what is termed the
calculating power; and men of the highest order of intellect have been
known to take an apparently unaccountable delight in it, while eschewing
chess as frivolous. Beyond doubt there is nothing of a similar nature
so greatly tasking the faculty of analysis. The best chess-player in
Christendom _may_ be little more than the best player of chess; but
proficiency in whist implies capacity for success in all those more
important undertakings where mind struggles with mind. When I say
proficiency, I mean that perfection in the game which includes a
comprehension of _all_ the sources whence legitimate advantage may be
derived. These are not only manifold but multiform, and lie frequently
among recesses of thought altogether inaccessible to the ordinary
understanding. To observe attentively is to remember distinctly; and,
so far, the concentrative chess-player will do very well at whist; while
the rules of Hoyle (themselves based upon the mere mechanism of the
game) are sufficiently and generally comprehensible. Thus to have a
retentive memory, and to proceed by "the book," are points commonly
regarded as the sum total of good playing. But it is in matters beyond
the limits of mere rule that the skill of the analyst is evinced. He
makes, in silence, a host of observations and inferences. So, perhaps,
do his companions; and the difference in the extent of the information
obtained, lies not so much in the validity of the inference as in the
quality of the observation. The necessary knowledge is that of _what_ to
observe. Our player confines himself not at all; nor, because the game
is the object, does he reject deductions from things external to the
game. He examines the countenance of his partner, comparing it carefully
with that of each of his opponents. He considers the mode of assorting
the cards in each hand; often counting trump by trump, and honor by
honor, through the glances bestowed by their holders upon each. He notes
every variation of face as the play progresses, gathering a fund
of thought from the differences in the expression of certainty, of
surprise, of triumph, or of chagrin. From the manner of gathering up
a trick he judges whether the person taking it can make another in the
suit. He recognises what is played through feint, by the air with
which it is thrown upon the table. A casual or inadvertent word; the
accidental dropping or turning of a card, with the accompanying anxiety
or carelessness in regard to its concealment; the counting of the
tricks, with the order of their arrangement; embarrassment, hesitation,
eagerness or trepidation--all afford, to his apparently intuitive
perception, indications of the true state of affairs. The first two
or three rounds having been played, he is in full possession of the
contents of each hand, and thenceforward puts down his cards with as
absolute a precision of purpose as if the rest of the party had turned
outward the faces of their own.

The analytical power should not be confounded with ample ingenuity; for
while the analyst is necessarily ingenious, the ingenious man is often
remarkably incapable of analysis. The constructive or combining power,
by which ingenuity is usually manifested, and to which the phrenologists
(I believe erroneously) have assigned a separate organ, supposing it a
primitive faculty, has been so frequently seen in those whose intellect
bordered otherwise upon idiocy, as to have attracted general observation
among writers on morals. Between ingenuity and the analytic ability
there exists a difference far greater, indeed, than that between the
fancy and the imagination, but of a character very strictly analogous.
It will be found, in fact, that the ingenious are always fanciful, and
the _truly_ imaginative never otherwise than analytic.

The narrative which follows will appear to the reader somewhat in the
light of a commentary upon the propositions just advanced.

Residing in Paris during the spring and part of the summer of 18--, I
there became acquainted with a Monsieur C. Auguste Dupin. This young
gentleman was of an excellent--indeed of an illustrious family, but, by
a variety of untoward events, had been reduced to such poverty that the
energy of his character succumbed beneath it, and he ceased to bestir
himself in the world, or to care for the retrieval of his fortunes.
By courtesy of his creditors, there still remained in his possession a
small remnant of his patrimony; and, upon the income arising from this,
he managed, by means of a rigorous economy, to procure the necessaries
of life, without troubling himself about its superfluities. Books,
indeed, were his sole luxuries, and in Paris these are easily obtained.

Our first meeting was at an obscure library in the Rue Montmartre, where
the accident of our both being in search of the same very rare and very
remarkable volume, brought us into closer communion. We saw each other
again and again. I was deeply interested in the little family history
which he detailed to me with all that candor which a Frenchman indulges
whenever mere self is his theme. I was astonished, too, at the vast
extent of his reading; and, above all, I felt my soul enkindled within
me by the wild fervor, and the vivid freshness of his imagination.
Seeking in Paris the objects I then sought, I felt that the society of
such a man would be to me a treasure beyond price; and this feeling I
frankly confided to him. It was at length arranged that we should live
together during my stay in the city; and as my worldly circumstances
were somewhat less embarrassed than his own, I was permitted to be
at the expense of renting, and furnishing in a style which suited the
rather fantastic gloom of our common temper, a time-eaten and grotesque
mansion, long deserted through superstitions into which we did not
inquire, and tottering to its fall in a retired and desolate portion of
the Faubourg St. Germain.

Had the routine of our life at this place been known to the world, we
should have been regarded as madmen--although, perhaps, as madmen of
a harmless nature. Our seclusion was perfect. We admitted no visitors.
Indeed the locality of our retirement had been carefully kept a secret
from my own former associates; and it had been many years since Dupin
had ceased to know or be known in Paris. We existed within ourselves
alone.

It was a freak of fancy in my friend (for what else shall I call it?) to
be enamored of the Night for her own sake; and into this _bizarrerie_,
as into all his others, I quietly fell; giving myself up to his wild
whims with a perfect _abandon_. The sable divinity would not herself
dwell with us always; but we could counterfeit her presence. At the
first dawn of the morning we closed all the messy shutters of our old
building; lighting a couple of tapers which, strongly perfumed, threw
out only the ghastliest and feeblest of rays. By the aid of these we
then busied our souls in dreams--reading, writing, or conversing, until
warned by the clock of the advent of the true Darkness. Then we sallied
forth into the streets arm in arm, continuing the topics of the day, or
roaming far and wide until a late hour, seeking, amid the wild lights
and shadows of the populous city, that infinity of mental excitement
which quiet observation can afford.

At such times I could not help remarking and admiring (although from
his rich ideality I had been prepared to expect it) a peculiar analytic
ability in Dupin. He seemed, too, to take an eager delight in its
exercise--if not exactly in its display--and did not hesitate to confess
the pleasure thus derived. He boasted to me, with a low chuckling laugh,
that most men, in respect to himself, wore windows in their bosoms,
and was wont to follow up such assertions by direct and very startling
proofs of his intimate knowledge of my own. His manner at these moments
was frigid and abstract; his eyes were vacant in expression; while his
voice, usually a rich tenor, rose into a treble which would have sounded
petulantly but for the deliberateness and entire distinctness of the
enunciation. Observing him in these moods, I often dwelt meditatively
upon the old philosophy of the Bi-Part Soul, and amused myself with the
fancy of a double Dupin--the creative and the resolvent.

Let it not be supposed, from what I have just said, that I am detailing
any mystery, or penning any romance. What I have described in the
Frenchman, was merely the result of an excited, or perhaps of a diseased
intelligence. But of the character of his remarks at the periods in
question an example will best convey the idea.

We were strolling one night down a long dirty street in the vicinity of
the Palais Royal. Being both, apparently, occupied with thought, neither
of us had spoken a syllable for fifteen minutes at least. All at once
Dupin broke forth with these words:

"He is a very little fellow, that's true, and would do better for the
_Théâtre des Variétés_."

"There can be no doubt of that," I replied unwittingly, and not at first
observing (so much had I been absorbed in reflection) the extraordinary
manner in which the speaker had chimed in with my meditations. In
an instant afterward I recollected myself, and my astonishment was
profound.

"Dupin," said I, gravely, "this is beyond my comprehension. I do not
hesitate to say that I am amazed, and can scarcely credit my senses. How
was it possible you should know I was thinking of -----?" Here I paused,
to ascertain beyond a doubt whether he really knew of whom I thought.

--"of Chantilly," said he, "why do you pause? You were remarking to
yourself that his diminutive figure unfitted him for tragedy."

This was precisely what had formed the subject of my reflections.
Chantilly was a _quondam_ cobbler of the Rue St. Denis, who, becoming
stage-mad, had attempted the _rôle_ of Xerxes, in Crébillon's tragedy so
called, and been notoriously Pasquinaded for his pains.

"Tell me, for Heaven's sake," I exclaimed, "the method--if method there
is--by which you have been enabled to fathom my soul in this matter." In
fact I was even more startled than I would have been willing to express.

"It was the fruiterer," replied my friend, "who brought you to the
conclusion that the mender of soles was not of sufficient height for
Xerxes _et id genus omne_."

"The fruiterer!--you astonish me--I know no fruiterer whomsoever."

"The man who ran up against you as we entered the street--it may have
been fifteen minutes ago."

I now remembered that, in fact, a fruiterer, carrying upon his head a
large basket of apples, had nearly thrown me down, by accident, as we
passed from the Rue C ---- into the thoroughfare where we stood; but
what this had to do with Chantilly I could not possibly understand.

There was not a particle of _charlatanerie_ about Dupin. "I will
explain," he said, "and that you may comprehend all clearly, we will
first retrace the course of your meditations, from the moment in which
I spoke to you until that of the _rencontre_ with the fruiterer in
question. The larger links of the chain run thus--Chantilly, Orion, Dr.
Nichols, Epicurus, Stereotomy, the street stones, the fruiterer."

There are few persons who have not, at some period of their lives,
amused themselves in retracing the steps by which particular conclusions
of their own minds have been attained. The occupation is often full of
interest and he who attempts it for the first time is astonished by
the apparently illimitable distance and incoherence between the
starting-point and the goal. What, then, must have been my amazement
when I heard the Frenchman speak what he had just spoken, and when I
could not help acknowledging that he had spoken the truth. He continued:

"We had been talking of horses, if I remember aright, just before
leaving the Rue C ----. This was the last subject we discussed. As we
crossed into this street, a fruiterer, with a large basket upon his
head, brushing quickly past us, thrust you upon a pile of paving stones
collected at a spot where the causeway is undergoing repair. You stepped
upon one of the loose fragments, slipped, slightly strained your ankle,
appeared vexed or sulky, muttered a few words, turned to look at the
pile, and then proceeded in silence. I was not particularly attentive to
what you did; but observation has become with me, of late, a species of
necessity.

"You kept your eyes upon the ground--glancing, with a petulant
expression, at the holes and ruts in the pavement, (so that I saw you
were still thinking of the stones,) until we reached the little alley
called Lamartine, which has been paved, by way of experiment, with the
overlapping and riveted blocks. Here your countenance brightened up,
and, perceiving your lips move, I could not doubt that you murmured the
word 'stereotomy,' a term very affectedly applied to this species of
pavement. I knew that you could not say to yourself 'stereotomy' without
being brought to think of atomies, and thus of the theories of Epicurus;
and since, when we discussed this subject not very long ago, I mentioned
to you how singularly, yet with how little notice, the vague guesses
of that noble Greek had met with confirmation in the late nebular
cosmogony, I felt that you could not avoid casting your eyes upward to
the great _nebula_ in Orion, and I certainly expected that you would do
so. You did look up; and I was now assured that I had correctly followed
your steps. But in that bitter _tirade_ upon Chantilly, which appeared
in yesterday's '_Musée_,' the satirist, making some disgraceful
allusions to the cobbler's change of name upon assuming the buskin,
quoted a Latin line about which we have often conversed. I mean the line

     Perdidit antiquum litera sonum.

"I had told you that this was in reference to Orion, formerly written
Urion; and, from certain pungencies connected with this explanation, I
was aware that you could not have forgotten it. It was clear, therefore,
that you would not fail to combine the two ideas of Orion and Chantilly.
That you did combine them I saw by the character of the smile which
passed over your lips. You thought of the poor cobbler's immolation. So
far, you had been stooping in your gait; but now I saw you draw yourself
up to your full height. I was then sure that you reflected upon the
diminutive figure of Chantilly. At this point I interrupted your
meditations to remark that as, in fact, he was a very little
fellow--that Chantilly--he would do better at the _Théâtre des
Variétés_."

Not long after this, we were looking over an evening edition of the
"Gazette des Tribunaux," when the following paragraphs arrested our
attention.

"EXTRAORDINARY MURDERS.--This morning, about three o'clock, the
inhabitants of the Quartier St. Roch were aroused from sleep by a
succession of terrific shrieks, issuing, apparently, from the fourth
story of a house in the Rue Morgue, known to be in the sole occupancy of
one Madame L'Espanaye, and her daughter Mademoiselle Camille L'Espanaye.
After some delay, occasioned by a fruitless attempt to procure admission
in the usual manner, the gateway was broken in with a crowbar, and eight
or ten of the neighbors entered accompanied by two _gendarmes_. By this
time the cries had ceased; but, as the party rushed up the first
flight of stairs, two or more rough voices in angry contention were
distinguished and seemed to proceed from the upper part of the house.
As the second landing was reached, these sounds, also, had ceased and
everything remained perfectly quiet. The party spread themselves and
hurried from room to room. Upon arriving at a large back chamber in
the fourth story, (the door of which, being found locked, with the key
inside, was forced open,) a spectacle presented itself which struck
every one present not less with horror than with astonishment.

"The apartment was in the wildest disorder--the furniture broken and
thrown about in all directions. There was only one bedstead; and from
this the bed had been removed, and thrown into the middle of the floor.
On a chair lay a razor, besmeared with blood. On the hearth were two or
three long and thick tresses of grey human hair, also dabbled in blood,
and seeming to have been pulled out by the roots. Upon the floor were
found four Napoleons, an ear-ring of topaz, three large silver spoons,
three smaller of_ métal d'Alger_, and two bags, containing nearly four
thousand francs in gold. The drawers of a _bureau_, which stood in
one corner were open, and had been, apparently, rifled, although many
articles still remained in them. A small iron safe was discovered under
the _bed_ (not under the bedstead). It was open, with the key still in
the door. It had no contents beyond a few old letters, and other papers
of little consequence.

"Of Madame L'Espanaye no traces were here seen; but an unusual quantity
of soot being observed in the fire-place, a search was made in the
chimney, and (horrible to relate!) the corpse of the daughter, head
downward, was dragged therefrom; it having been thus forced up the
narrow aperture for a considerable distance. The body was quite warm.
Upon examining it, many excoriations were perceived, no doubt occasioned
by the violence with which it had been thrust up and disengaged. Upon
the face were many severe scratches, and, upon the throat, dark bruises,
and deep indentations of finger nails, as if the deceased had been
throttled to death.

"After a thorough investigation of every portion of the house, without
farther discovery, the party made its way into a small paved yard in
the rear of the building, where lay the corpse of the old lady, with her
throat so entirely cut that, upon an attempt to raise her, the head fell
off. The body, as well as the head, was fearfully mutilated--the former
so much so as scarcely to retain any semblance of humanity.

"To this horrible mystery there is not as yet, we believe, the slightest
clew."

The next day's paper had these additional particulars.

"_The Tragedy in the Rue Morgue._ Many individuals have been examined
in relation to this most extraordinary and frightful affair. [The word
'affaire' has not yet, in France, that levity of import which it conveys
with us,] "but nothing whatever has transpired to throw light upon it.
We give below all the material testimony elicited.

"_Pauline Dubourg_, laundress, deposes that she has known both the
deceased for three years, having washed for them during that period.
The old lady and her daughter seemed on good terms--very affectionate
towards each other. They were excellent pay. Could not speak in regard
to their mode or means of living. Believed that Madame L. told fortunes
for a living. Was reputed to have money put by. Never met any persons
in the house when she called for the clothes or took them home. Was sure
that they had no servant in employ. There appeared to be no furniture in
any part of the building except in the fourth story.

"_Pierre Moreau_, tobacconist, deposes that he has been in the habit of
selling small quantities of tobacco and snuff to Madame L'Espanaye for
nearly four years. Was born in the neighborhood, and has always resided
there. The deceased and her daughter had occupied the house in which the
corpses were found, for more than six years. It was formerly occupied by
a jeweller, who under-let the upper rooms to various persons. The house
was the property of Madame L. She became dissatisfied with the abuse of
the premises by her tenant, and moved into them herself, refusing to let
any portion. The old lady was childish. Witness had seen the daughter
some five or six times during the six years. The two lived an
exceedingly retired life--were reputed to have money. Had heard it said
among the neighbors that Madame L. told fortunes--did not believe it.
Had never seen any person enter the door except the old lady and her
daughter, a porter once or twice, and a physician some eight or ten
times.

"Many other persons, neighbors, gave evidence to the same effect. No one
was spoken of as frequenting the house. It was not known whether there
were any living connexions of Madame L. and her daughter. The shutters
of the front windows were seldom opened. Those in the rear were always
closed, with the exception of the large back room, fourth story. The
house was a good house--not very old.

"_Isidore Muset_, _gendarme_, deposes that he was called to the house
about three o'clock in the morning, and found some twenty or thirty
persons at the gateway, endeavoring to gain admittance. Forced it open,
at length, with a bayonet--not with a crowbar. Had but little difficulty
in getting it open, on account of its being a double or folding gate,
and bolted neither at bottom not top. The shrieks were continued until
the gate was forced--and then suddenly ceased. They seemed to be screams
of some person (or persons) in great agony--were loud and drawn out,
not short and quick. Witness led the way up stairs. Upon reaching the
first landing, heard two voices in loud and angry contention--the one
a gruff voice, the other much shriller--a very strange voice. Could
distinguish some words of the former, which was that of a Frenchman. Was
positive that it was not a woman's voice. Could distinguish the words
'_sacré_' and '_diable._' The shrill voice was that of a foreigner.
Could not be sure whether it was the voice of a man or of a woman. Could
not make out what was said, but believed the language to be Spanish. The
state of the room and of the bodies was described by this witness as we
described them yesterday.

"_Henri Duval_, a neighbor, and by trade a silver-smith, deposes that
he was one of the party who first entered the house. Corroborates the
testimony of Muset in general. As soon as they forced an entrance, they
reclosed the door, to keep out the crowd, which collected very fast,
notwithstanding the lateness of the hour. The shrill voice, this witness
thinks, was that of an Italian. Was certain it was not French. Could not
be sure that it was a man's voice. It might have been a woman's. Was not
acquainted with the Italian language. Could not distinguish the words,
but was convinced by the intonation that the speaker was an Italian.
Knew Madame L. and her daughter. Had conversed with both frequently. Was
sure that the shrill voice was not that of either of the deceased.

"--_Odenheimer, restaurateur._ This witness volunteered his testimony.
Not speaking French, was examined through an interpreter. Is a native of
Amsterdam. Was passing the house at the time of the shrieks. They lasted
for several minutes--probably ten. They were long and loud--very awful
and distressing. Was one of those who entered the building. Corroborated
the previous evidence in every respect but one. Was sure that the shrill
voice was that of a man--of a Frenchman. Could not distinguish the
words uttered. They were loud and quick--unequal--spoken apparently in
fear as well as in anger. The voice was harsh--not so much shrill as
harsh. Could not call it a shrill voice. The gruff voice said repeatedly
'_sacré_,' '_diable_,' and once '_mon Dieu._'

"_Jules Mignaud_, banker, of the firm of Mignaud et Fils, Rue Deloraine.
Is the elder Mignaud. Madame L'Espanaye had some property. Had opened an
account with his banking house in the spring of the year--(eight years
previously). Made frequent deposits in small sums. Had checked for
nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in
person the sum of 4000 francs. This sum was paid in gold, and a clerk
went home with the money.

"_Adolphe Le Bon_, clerk to Mignaud et Fils, deposes that on the day in
question, about noon, he accompanied Madame L'Espanaye to her residence
with the 4000 francs, put up in two bags. Upon the door being opened,
Mademoiselle L. appeared and took from his hands one of the bags, while
the old lady relieved him of the other. He then bowed and departed. Did
not see any person in the street at the time. It is a bye-street--very
lonely.

"_William Bird_, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who entered
the house. Is an Englishman. Has lived in Paris two years. Was one of
the first to ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in contention. The
gruff voice was that of a Frenchman. Could make out several words, but
cannot now remember all. Heard distinctly '_sacré_' and '_mon Dieu._'
There was a sound at the moment as if of several persons struggling--a
scraping and scuffling sound. The shrill voice was very loud--louder
than the gruff one. Is sure that it was not the voice of an Englishman.
Appeared to be that of a German. Might have been a woman's voice. Does
not understand German.

"Four of the above-named witnesses, being recalled, deposed that the
door of the chamber in which was found the body of Mademoiselle L.
was locked on the inside when the party reached it. Every thing was
perfectly silent--no groans or noises of any kind. Upon forcing the door
no person was seen. The windows, both of the back and front room, were
down and firmly fastened from within. A door between the two rooms was
closed, but not locked. The door leading from the front room into the
passage was locked, with the key on the inside. A small room in the
front of the house, on the fourth story, at the head of the passage was
open, the door being ajar. This room was crowded with old beds, boxes,
and so forth. These were carefully removed and searched. There was not
an inch of any portion of the house which was not carefully searched.
Sweeps were sent up and down the chimneys. The house was a four story
one, with garrets (_mansardes._) A trap-door on the roof was nailed down
very securely--did not appear to have been opened for years. The
time elapsing between the hearing of the voices in contention and the
breaking open of the room door, was variously stated by the witnesses.
Some made it as short as three minutes--some as long as five. The door
was opened with difficulty.

"_Alfonzo Garcio_, undertaker, deposes that he resides in the Rue
Morgue. Is a native of Spain. Was one of the party who entered the
house. Did not proceed up stairs. Is nervous, and was apprehensive of
the consequences of agitation. Heard the voices in contention. The gruff
voice was that of a Frenchman. Could not distinguish what was said.
The shrill voice was that of an Englishman--is sure of this. Does not
understand the English language, but judges by the intonation.

"_Alberto Montani_, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first
to ascend the stairs. Heard the voices in question. The gruff voice was
that of a Frenchman. Distinguished several words. The speaker appeared
to be expostulating. Could not make out the words of the shrill voice.
Spoke quick and unevenly. Thinks it the voice of a Russian. Corroborates
the general testimony. Is an Italian. Never conversed with a native of
Russia.

"Several witnesses, recalled, here testified that the chimneys of all
the rooms on the fourth story were too narrow to admit the passage of a
human being. By 'sweeps' were meant cylindrical sweeping brushes, such
as are employed by those who clean chimneys. These brushes were passed
up and down every flue in the house. There is no back passage by which
any one could have descended while the party proceeded up stairs. The
body of Mademoiselle L'Espanaye was so firmly wedged in the chimney that
it could not be got down until four or five of the party united their
strength.

"_Paul Dumas_, physician, deposes that he was called to view the
bodies about day-break. They were both then lying on the sacking of the
bedstead in the chamber where Mademoiselle L. was found. The corpse of
the young lady was much bruised and excoriated. The fact that it
had been thrust up the chimney would sufficiently account for these
appearances. The throat was greatly chafed. There were several deep
scratches just below the chin, together with a series of livid spots
which were evidently the impression of fingers. The face was fearfully
discolored, and the eye-balls protruded. The tongue had been partially
bitten through. A large bruise was discovered upon the pit of the
stomach, produced, apparently, by the pressure of a knee. In the opinion
of M. Dumas, Mademoiselle L'Espanaye had been throttled to death by
some person or persons unknown. The corpse of the mother was horribly
mutilated. All the bones of the right leg and arm were more or less
shattered. The left _tibia_ much splintered, as well as all the ribs of
the left side. Whole body dreadfully bruised and discolored. It was not
possible to say how the injuries had been inflicted. A heavy club of
wood, or a broad bar of iron--a chair--any large, heavy, and obtuse
weapon would have produced such results, if wielded by the hands of
a very powerful man. No woman could have inflicted the blows with any
weapon. The head of the deceased, when seen by witness, was entirely
separated from the body, and was also greatly shattered. The throat
had evidently been cut with some very sharp instrument--probably with a
razor.

"_Alexandre Etienne_, surgeon, was called with M. Dumas to view the
bodies. Corroborated the testimony, and the opinions of M. Dumas.

"Nothing farther of importance was elicited, although several other
persons were examined. A murder so mysterious, and so perplexing in all
its particulars, was never before committed in Paris--if indeed a murder
has been committed at all. The police are entirely at fault--an unusual
occurrence in affairs of this nature. There is not, however, the shadow
of a clew apparent."

The evening edition of the paper stated that the greatest excitement
still continued in the Quartier St. Roch--that the premises in question
had been carefully re-searched, and fresh examinations of witnesses
instituted, but all to no purpose. A postscript, however, mentioned
that Adolphe Le Bon had been arrested and imprisoned--although nothing
appeared to criminate him, beyond the facts already detailed.

Dupin seemed singularly interested in the progress of this affair--at
least so I judged from his manner, for he made no comments. It was only
after the announcement that Le Bon had been imprisoned, that he asked me
my opinion respecting the murders.

I could merely agree with all Paris in considering them an insoluble
mystery. I saw no means by which it would be possible to trace the
murderer.

"We must not judge of the means," said Dupin, "by this shell of an
examination. The Parisian police, so much extolled for _acumen_, are
cunning, but no more. There is no method in their proceedings, beyond
the method of the moment. They make a vast parade of measures; but, not
unfrequently, these are so ill adapted to the objects proposed, as
to put us in mind of Monsieur Jourdain's calling for his
_robe-de-chambre--pour mieux entendre la musique._ The results attained
by them are not unfrequently surprising, but, for the most part, are
brought about by simple diligence and activity. When these qualities are
unavailing, their schemes fail. Vidocq, for example, was a good
guesser and a persevering man. But, without educated thought, he erred
continually by the very intensity of his investigations. He impaired his
vision by holding the object too close. He might see, perhaps, one or
two points with unusual clearness, but in so doing he, necessarily, lost
sight of the matter as a whole. Thus there is such a thing as being too
profound. Truth is not always in a well. In fact, as regards the more
important knowledge, I do believe that she is invariably superficial.
The depth lies in the valleys where we seek her, and not upon the
mountain-tops where she is found. The modes and sources of this kind of
error are well typified in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies.
To look at a star by glances--to view it in a side-long way, by turning
toward it the exterior portions of the _retina_ (more susceptible of
feeble impressions of light than the interior), is to behold the star
distinctly--is to have the best appreciation of its lustre--a lustre
which grows dim just in proportion as we turn our vision _fully_ upon
it. A greater number of rays actually fall upon the eye in the latter
case, but, in the former, there is the more refined capacity for
comprehension. By undue profundity we perplex and enfeeble thought; and
it is possible to make even Venus herself vanish from the firmanent by a
scrutiny too sustained, too concentrated, or too direct.

"As for these murders, let us enter into some examinations for
ourselves, before we make up an opinion respecting them. An inquiry will
afford us amusement," [I thought this an odd term, so applied, but said
nothing] "and, besides, Le Bon once rendered me a service for which I
am not ungrateful. We will go and see the premises with our own eyes.
I know G----, the Prefect of Police, and shall have no difficulty in
obtaining the necessary permission."

The permission was obtained, and we proceeded at once to the Rue Morgue.
This is one of those miserable thoroughfares which intervene between the
Rue Richelieu and the Rue St. Roch. It was late in the afternoon when we
reached it; as this quarter is at a great distance from that in which we
resided. The house was readily found; for there were still many persons
gazing up at the closed shutters, with an objectless curiosity, from
the opposite side of the way. It was an ordinary Parisian house, with
a gateway, on one side of which was a glazed watch-box, with a sliding
panel in the window, indicating a _loge de concierge._ Before going in
we walked up the street, turned down an alley, and then, again turning,
passed in the rear of the building--Dupin, meanwhile examining the whole
neighborhood, as well as the house, with a minuteness of attention for
which I could see no possible object.

Retracing our steps, we came again to the front of the dwelling, rang,
and, having shown our credentials, were admitted by the agents
in charge. We went up stairs--into the chamber where the body of
Mademoiselle L'Espanaye had been found, and where both the deceased
still lay. The disorders of the room had, as usual, been suffered to
exist. I saw nothing beyond what had been stated in the "Gazette des
Tribunaux." Dupin scrutinized every thing--not excepting the bodies of
the victims. We then went into the other rooms, and into the yard; a
_gendarme_ accompanying us throughout. The examination occupied us until
dark, when we took our departure. On our way home my companion stepped
in for a moment at the office of one of the daily papers.

I have said that the whims of my friend were manifold, and that _Je les
ménageais_:--for this phrase there is no English equivalent. It was his
humor, now, to decline all conversation on the subject of the murder,
until about noon the next day. He then asked me, suddenly, if I had
observed any thing _peculiar_ at the scene of the atrocity.

There was something in his manner of emphasizing the word "peculiar,"
which caused me to shudder, without knowing why.

"No, nothing _peculiar_," I said; "nothing more, at least, than we both
saw stated in the paper."

"The 'Gazette,'" he replied, "has not entered, I fear, into the unusual
horror of the thing. But dismiss the idle opinions of this print. It
appears to me that this mystery is considered insoluble, for the very
reason which should cause it to be regarded as easy of solution--I mean
for the _outré_ character of its features. The police are confounded by
the seeming absence of motive--not for the murder itself--but for
the atrocity of the murder. They are puzzled, too, by the seeming
impossibility of reconciling the voices heard in contention, with
the facts that no one was discovered up stairs but the assassinated
Mademoiselle L'Espanaye, and that there were no means of egress without
the notice of the party ascending. The wild disorder of the room; the
corpse thrust, with the head downward, up the chimney; the frightful
mutilation of the body of the old lady; these considerations, with those
just mentioned, and others which I need not mention, have sufficed
to paralyze the powers, by putting completely at fault the boasted
_acumen_, of the government agents. They have fallen into the gross but
common error of confounding the unusual with the abstruse. But it is by
these deviations from the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels its
way, if at all, in its search for the true. In investigations such as we
are now pursuing, it should not be so much asked 'what has occurred,'
as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before.' In fact, the
facility with which I shall arrive, or have arrived, at the solution of
this mystery, is in the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the
eyes of the police."

I stared at the speaker in mute astonishment.

"I am now awaiting," continued he, looking toward the door of our
apartment--"I am now awaiting a person who, although perhaps not
the perpetrator of these butcheries, must have been in some measure
implicated in their perpetration. Of the worst portion of the crimes
committed, it is probable that he is innocent. I hope that I am right
in this supposition; for upon it I build my expectation of reading the
entire riddle. I look for the man here--in this room--every moment. It
is true that he may not arrive; but the probability is that he will.
Should he come, it will be necessary to detain him. Here are pistols;
and we both know how to use them when occasion demands their use."

I took the pistols, scarcely knowing what I did, or believing what
I heard, while Dupin went on, very much as if in a soliloquy. I have
already spoken of his abstract manner at such times. His discourse was
addressed to myself; but his voice, although by no means loud, had that
intonation which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great
distance. His eyes, vacant in expression, regarded only the wall.

"That the voices heard in contention," he said, "by the party upon the
stairs, were not the voices of the women themselves, was fully proved
by the evidence. This relieves us of all doubt upon the question whether
the old lady could have first destroyed the daughter and afterward have
committed suicide. I speak of this point chiefly for the sake of method;
for the strength of Madame L'Espanaye would have been utterly unequal
to the task of thrusting her daughter's corpse up the chimney as it
was found; and the nature of the wounds upon her own person entirely
preclude the idea of self-destruction. Murder, then, has been committed
by some third party; and the voices of this third party were those heard
in contention. Let me now advert--not to the whole testimony respecting
these voices--but to what was _peculiar_ in that testimony. Did you
observe any thing peculiar about it?"

I remarked that, while all the witnesses agreed in supposing the gruff
voice to be that of a Frenchman, there was much disagreement in regard
to the shrill, or, as one individual termed it, the harsh voice.

"That was the evidence itself," said Dupin, "but it was not the
peculiarity of the evidence. You have observed nothing distinctive.
Yet there _was_ something to be observed. The witnesses, as you remark,
agreed about the gruff voice; they were here unanimous. But in regard to
the shrill voice, the peculiarity is--not that they disagreed--but
that, while an Italian, an Englishman, a Spaniard, a Hollander, and a
Frenchman attempted to describe it, each one spoke of it as that _of
a foreigner_. Each is sure that it was not the voice of one of his own
countrymen. Each likens it--not to the voice of an individual of any
nation with whose language he is conversant--but the converse.
The Frenchman supposes it the voice of a Spaniard, and 'might have
distinguished some words _had he been acquainted with the Spanish._' The
Dutchman maintains it to have been that of a Frenchman; but we find it
stated that '_not understanding French this witness was examined through
an interpreter._' The Englishman thinks it the voice of a German, and
'_does not understand German._' The Spaniard 'is sure' that it was that
of an Englishman, but 'judges by the intonation' altogether, '_as he has
no knowledge of the English._' The Italian believes it the voice of a
Russian, but '_has never conversed with a native of Russia._' A second
Frenchman differs, moreover, with the first, and is positive that the
voice was that of an Italian; but, _not being cognizant of that tongue_,
is, like the Spaniard, 'convinced by the intonation.' Now, how strangely
unusual must that voice have really been, about which such testimony as
this _could_ have been elicited!--in whose _tones_, even, denizens of
the five great divisions of Europe could recognise nothing familiar! You
will say that it might have been the voice of an Asiatic--of an African.
Neither Asiatics nor Africans abound in Paris; but, without denying the
inference, I will now merely call your attention to three points.
The voice is termed by one witness 'harsh rather than shrill.' It
is represented by two others to have been 'quick and _unequal._' No
words--no sounds resembling words--were by any witness mentioned as
distinguishable.

"I know not," continued Dupin, "what impression I may have made, so
far, upon your own understanding; but I do not hesitate to say that
legitimate deductions even from this portion of the testimony--the
portion respecting the gruff and shrill voices--are in themselves
sufficient to engender a suspicion which should give direction to all
farther progress in the investigation of the mystery. I said 'legitimate
deductions;' but my meaning is not thus fully expressed. I designed
to imply that the deductions are the _sole_ proper ones, and that the
suspicion arises _inevitably_ from them as the single result. What the
suspicion is, however, I will not say just yet. I merely wish you to
bear in mind that, with myself, it was sufficiently forcible to give a
definite form--a certain tendency--to my inquiries in the chamber.

"Let us now transport ourselves, in fancy, to this chamber. What shall
we first seek here? The means of egress employed by the murderers. It is
not too much to say that neither of us believe in præternatural events.
Madame and Mademoiselle L'Espanaye were not destroyed by spirits. The
doers of the deed were material, and escaped materially. Then how?
Fortunately, there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point, and that
mode _must_ lead us to a definite decision.--Let us examine, each by
each, the possible means of egress. It is clear that the assassins were
in the room where Mademoiselle L'Espanaye was found, or at least in the
room adjoining, when the party ascended the stairs. It is then only from
these two apartments that we have to seek issues. The police have laid
bare the floors, the ceilings, and the masonry of the walls, in every
direction. No _secret_ issues could have escaped their vigilance. But,
not trusting to _their_ eyes, I examined with my own. There were, then,
no secret issues. Both doors leading from the rooms into the passage
were securely locked, with the keys inside. Let us turn to the chimneys.
These, although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet above the
hearths, will not admit, throughout their extent, the body of a large
cat. The impossibility of egress, by means already stated, being thus
absolute, we are reduced to the windows. Through those of the front room
no one could have escaped without notice from the crowd in the street.
The murderers _must_ have passed, then, through those of the back room.
Now, brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as we are,
it is not our part, as reasoners, to reject it on account of apparent
impossibilities. It is only left for us to prove that these apparent
'impossibilities' are, in reality, not such.

"There are two windows in the chamber. One of them is unobstructed by
furniture, and is wholly visible. The lower portion of the other is
hidden from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust
close up against it. The former was found securely fastened from within.
It resisted the utmost force of those who endeavored to raise it. A
large gimlet-hole had been pierced in its frame to the left, and a very
stout nail was found fitted therein, nearly to the head. Upon examining
the other window, a similar nail was seen similarly fitted in it; and
a vigorous attempt to raise this sash, failed also. The police were now
entirely satisfied that egress had not been in these directions. And,
_therefore_, it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the
nails and open the windows.

"My own examination was somewhat more particular, and was so for the
reason I have just given--because here it was, I knew, that all apparent
impossibilities _must_ be proved to be not such in reality.

"I proceeded to think thus--_a posteriori_. The murderers did escape
from one of these windows. This being so, they could not have refastened
the sashes from the inside, as they were found fastened;--the
consideration which put a stop, through its obviousness, to the scrutiny
of the police in this quarter. Yet the sashes _were_ fastened. They
_must_, then, have the power of fastening themselves. There was no
escape from this conclusion. I stepped to the unobstructed casement,
withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash.
It resisted all my efforts, as I had anticipated. A concealed spring
must, I now know, exist; and this corroboration of my idea convinced
me that my premises at least, were correct, however mysterious still
appeared the circumstances attending the nails. A careful search soon
brought to light the hidden spring. I pressed it, and, satisfied with
the discovery, forbore to upraise the sash.

"I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively. A person passing
out through this window might have reclosed it, and the spring would
have caught--but the nail could not have been replaced. The conclusion
was plain, and again narrowed in the field of my investigations. The
assassins _must_ have escaped through the other window. Supposing, then,
the springs upon each sash to be the same, as was probable, there _must_
be found a difference between the nails, or at least between the modes
of their fixture. Getting upon the sacking of the bedstead, I looked
over the head-board minutely at the second casement. Passing my hand
down behind the board, I readily discovered and pressed the spring,
which was, as I had supposed, identical in character with its neighbor.
I now looked at the nail. It was as stout as the other, and apparently
fitted in the same manner--driven in nearly up to the head.

"You will say that I was puzzled; but, if you think so, you must have
misunderstood the nature of the inductions. To use a sporting phrase,
I had not been once 'at fault.' The scent had never for an instant
been lost. There was no flaw in any link of the chain. I had traced the
secret to its ultimate result,--and that result was _the nail._ It
had, I say, in every respect, the appearance of its fellow in the other
window; but this fact was an absolute nullity (conclusive us it might
seem to be) when compared with the consideration that here, at this
point, terminated the clew. 'There _must_ be something wrong,' I said,
'about the nail.' I touched it; and the head, with about a quarter of an
inch of the shank, came off in my fingers. The rest of the shank was in
the gimlet-hole where it had been broken off. The fracture was an old
one (for its edges were incrusted with rust), and had apparently been
accomplished by the blow of a hammer, which had partially imbedded,
in the top of the bottom sash, the head portion of the nail. I now
carefully replaced this head portion in the indentation whence I had
taken it, and the resemblance to a perfect nail was complete--the
fissure was invisible. Pressing the spring, I gently raised the sash
for a few inches; the head went up with it, remaining firm in its bed.
I closed the window, and the semblance of the whole nail was again
perfect.

"The riddle, so far, was now unriddled. The assassin had escaped through
the window which looked upon the bed. Dropping of its own accord upon
his exit (or perhaps purposely closed), it had become fastened by the
spring; and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken
by the police for that of the nail,--farther inquiry being thus
considered unnecessary.

"The next question is that of the mode of descent. Upon this point I had
been satisfied in my walk with you around the building. About five feet
and a half from the casement in question there runs a lightning-rod.
From this rod it would have been impossible for any one to reach the
window itself, to say nothing of entering it. I observed, however, that
the shutters of the fourth story were of the peculiar kind called by
Parisian carpenters _ferrades_--a kind rarely employed at the present
day, but frequently seen upon very old mansions at Lyons and Bordeaux.
They are in the form of an ordinary door, (a single, not a folding door)
except that the lower half is latticed or worked in open trellis--thus
affording an excellent hold for the hands. In the present instance these
shutters are fully three feet and a half broad. When we saw them from
the rear of the house, they were both about half open--that is to say,
they stood off at right angles from the wall. It is probable that the
police, as well as myself, examined the back of the tenement; but, if
so, in looking at these _ferrades_ in the line of their breadth (as they
must have done), they did not perceive this great breadth itself, or,
at all events, failed to take it into due consideration. In fact, having
once satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this
quarter, they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination.
It was clear to me, however, that the shutter belonging to the window
at the head of the bed, would, if swung fully back to the wall, reach
to within two feet of the lightning-rod. It was also evident that, by
exertion of a very unusual degree of activity and courage, an entrance
into the window, from the rod, might have been thus effected.--By
reaching to the distance of two feet and a half (we now suppose the
shutter open to its whole extent) a robber might have taken a firm grasp
upon the trellis-work. Letting go, then, his hold upon the rod, placing
his feet securely against the wall, and springing boldly from it, he
might have swung the shutter so as to close it, and, if we imagine the
window open at the time, might even have swung himself into the room.

"I wish you to bear especially in mind that I have spoken of a _very_
unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and
so difficult a feat. It is my design to show you, first, that the thing
might possibly have been accomplished:--but, secondly and _chiefly_, I
wish to impress upon your understanding the _very extraordinary_--the
almost præternatural character of that agility which could have
accomplished it.

"You will say, no doubt, using the language of the law, that 'to make
out my case,' I should rather undervalue, than insist upon a full
estimation of the activity required in this matter. This may be the
practice in law, but it is not the usage of reason. My ultimate object
is only the truth. My immediate purpose is to lead you to place in
juxtaposition, that _very unusual_ activity of which I have just spoken
with that _very peculiar_ shrill (or harsh) and _unequal_ voice, about
whose nationality no two persons could be found to agree, and in whose
utterance no syllabification could be detected."

At these words a vague and half-formed conception of the meaning
of Dupin flitted over my mind. I seemed to be upon the verge of
comprehension without power to comprehend--men, at times, find
themselves upon the brink of remembrance without being able, in the end,
to remember. My friend went on with his discourse.

"You will see," he said, "that I have shifted the question from the mode
of egress to that of ingress. It was my design to convey the idea that
both were effected in the same manner, at the same point. Let us now
revert to the interior of the room. Let us survey the appearances here.
The drawers of the bureau, it is said, had been rifled, although many
articles of apparel still remained within them. The conclusion here is
absurd. It is a mere guess--a very silly one--and no more. How are
we to know that the articles found in the drawers were not all these
drawers had originally contained? Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter
lived an exceedingly retired life--saw no company--seldom went out--had
little use for numerous changes of habiliment. Those found were at least
of as good quality as any likely to be possessed by these ladies. If a
thief had taken any, why did he not take the best--why did he not take
all? In a word, why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to
encumber himself with a bundle of linen? The gold _was _abandoned.
Nearly the whole sum mentioned by Monsieur Mignaud, the banker, was
discovered, in bags, upon the floor. I wish you, therefore, to discard
from your thoughts the blundering idea of _motive_, engendered in the
brains of the police by that portion of the evidence which speaks of
money delivered at the door of the house. Coincidences ten times as
remarkable as this (the delivery of the money, and murder committed
within three days upon the party receiving it), happen to all of us
every hour of our lives, without attracting even momentary notice.
Coincidences, in general, are great stumbling-blocks in the way of that
class of thinkers who have been educated to know nothing of the theory
of probabilities--that theory to which the most glorious objects of
human research are indebted for the most glorious of illustration. In
the present instance, had the gold been gone, the fact of its delivery
three days before would have formed something more than a coincidence.
It would have been corroborative of this idea of motive. But, under the
real circumstances of the case, if we are to suppose gold the motive
of this outrage, we must also imagine the perpetrator so vacillating an
idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his motive together.

"Keeping now steadily in mind the points to which I have drawn your
attention--that peculiar voice, that unusual agility, and that startling
absence of motive in a murder so singularly atrocious as this--let us
glance at the butchery itself. Here is a woman strangled to death
by manual strength, and thrust up a chimney, head downward. Ordinary
assassins employ no such modes of murder as this. Least of all, do they
thus dispose of the murdered. In the manner of thrusting the corpse
up the chimney, you will admit that there was something _excessively
outré_--something altogether irreconcilable with our common notions of
human action, even when we suppose the actors the most depraved of men.
Think, too, how great must have been that strength which could have
thrust the body _up_ such an aperture so forcibly that the united vigor
of several persons was found barely sufficient to drag it _down!_

"Turn, now, to other indications of the employment of a vigor most
marvellous. On the hearth were thick tresses--very thick tresses--of
grey human hair. These had been torn out by the roots. You are aware of
the great force necessary in tearing thus from the head even twenty or
thirty hairs together. You saw the locks in question as well as myself.
Their roots (a hideous sight!) were clotted with fragments of the flesh
of the scalp--sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted
in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time. The throat of
the old lady was not merely cut, but the head absolutely severed from
the body: the instrument was a mere razor. I wish you also to look at
the _brutal_ ferocity of these deeds. Of the bruises upon the body
of Madame L'Espanaye I do not speak. Monsieur Dumas, and his worthy
coadjutor Monsieur Etienne, have pronounced that they were inflicted by
some obtuse instrument; and so far these gentlemen are very correct. The
obtuse instrument was clearly the stone pavement in the yard, upon which
the victim had fallen from the window which looked in upon the bed. This
idea, however simple it may now seem, escaped the police for the same
reason that the breadth of the shutters escaped them--because, by the
affair of the nails, their perceptions had been hermetically sealed
against the possibility of the windows having ever been opened at all.

"If now, in addition to all these things, you have properly reflected
upon the odd disorder of the chamber, we have gone so far as to combine
the ideas of an agility astounding, a strength superhuman, a ferocity
brutal, a butchery without motive, a _grotesquerie_ in horror absolutely
alien from humanity, and a voice foreign in tone to the ears of men
of many nations, and devoid of all distinct or intelligible
syllabification. What result, then, has ensued? What impression have I
made upon your fancy?"

I felt a creeping of the flesh as Dupin asked me the question. "A
madman," I said, "has done this deed--some raving maniac, escaped from a
neighboring _Maison de Santé._"

"In some respects," he replied, "your idea is not irrelevant. But the
voices of madmen, even in their wildest paroxysms, are never found to
tally with that peculiar voice heard upon the stairs. Madmen are of some
nation, and their language, however incoherent in its words, has always
the coherence of syllabification. Besides, the hair of a madman is not
such as I now hold in my hand. I disentangled this little tuft from the
rigidly clutched fingers of Madame L'Espanaye. Tell me what you can make
of it."

"Dupin!" I said, completely unnerved; "this hair is most unusual--this
is no _human_ hair."

"I have not asserted that it is," said he; "but, before we decide this
point, I wish you to glance at the little sketch I have here traced upon
this paper. It is a _fac-simile_ drawing of what has been described in
one portion of the testimony as 'dark bruises, and deep indentations
of finger nails,' upon the throat of Mademoiselle L'Espanaye, and in
another, (by Messrs. Dumas and Etienne,) as a 'series of livid spots,
evidently the impression of fingers.'

"You will perceive," continued my friend, spreading out the paper upon
the table before us, "that this drawing gives the idea of a firm
and fixed hold. There is no _slipping_ apparent. Each finger has
retained--possibly until the death of the victim--the fearful grasp by
which it originally imbedded itself. Attempt, now, to place all your
fingers, at the same time, in the respective impressions as you see
them."

I made the attempt in vain.

"We are possibly not giving this matter a fair trial," he said. "The
paper is spread out upon a plane surface; but the human throat is
cylindrical. Here is a billet of wood, the circumference of which
is about that of the throat. Wrap the drawing around it, and try the
experiment again."

I did so; but the difficulty was even more obvious than before. "This,"
I said, "is the mark of no human hand."

"Read now," replied Dupin, "this passage from Cuvier."

It was a minute anatomical and generally descriptive account of the
large fulvous Ourang-Outang of the East Indian Islands. The gigantic
stature, the prodigious strength and activity, the wild ferocity, and
the imitative propensities of these mammalia are sufficiently well known
to all. I understood the full horrors of the murder at once.

"The description of the digits," said I, as I made an end of reading,
"is in exact accordance with this drawing. I see that no animal but an
Ourang-Outang, of the species here mentioned, could have impressed the
indentations as you have traced them. This tuft of tawny hair, too, is
identical in character with that of the beast of Cuvier. But I cannot
possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery. Besides,
there were _two_ voices heard in contention, and one of them was
unquestionably the voice of a Frenchman."

"True; and you will remember an expression attributed almost
unanimously, by the evidence, to this voice,--the expression, '_mon
Dieu!_' This, under the circumstances, has been justly characterized by
one of the witnesses (Montani, the confectioner,) as an expression of
remonstrance or expostulation. Upon these two words, therefore, I have
mainly built my hopes of a full solution of the riddle. A Frenchman
was cognizant of the murder. It is possible--indeed it is far more
than probable--that he was innocent of all participation in the bloody
transactions which took place. The Ourang-Outang may have escaped from
him. He may have traced it to the chamber; but, under the agitating
circumstances which ensued, he could never have re-captured it. It is
still at large. I will not pursue these guesses--for I have no right to
call them more--since the shades of reflection upon which they are based
are scarcely of sufficient depth to be appreciable by my own intellect,
and since I could not pretend to make them intelligible to the
understanding of another. We will call them guesses then, and speak
of them as such. If the Frenchman in question is indeed, as I suppose,
innocent of this atrocity, this advertisement which I left last night,
upon our return home, at the office of 'Le Monde,' (a paper devoted to
the shipping interest, and much sought by sailors,) will bring him to
our residence."

He handed me a paper, and I read thus:

CAUGHT--_In the Bois de Boulogne, early in the morning of the--inst.,_
(the morning of the murder,) _a very large, tawny Ourang-Outang of
the Bornese species. The owner, (who is ascertained to be a sailor,
belonging to a Maltese vessel,) may have the animal again, upon
identifying it satisfactorily, and paying a few charges arising from
its capture and keeping. Call at No. ----, Rue ----, Faubourg St.
Germain--au troisiême._

"How was it possible," I asked, "that you should know the man to be a
sailor, and belonging to a Maltese vessel?"

"I do _not_ know it," said Dupin. "I am not _sure_ of it. Here, however,
is a small piece of ribbon, which from its form, and from its greasy
appearance, has evidently been used in tying the hair in one of those
long _queues_ of which sailors are so fond. Moreover, this knot is one
which few besides sailors can tie, and is peculiar to the Maltese. I
picked the ribbon up at the foot of the lightning-rod. It could not have
belonged to either of the deceased. Now if, after all, I am wrong in my
induction from this ribbon, that the Frenchman was a sailor belonging to
a Maltese vessel, still I can have done no harm in saying what I did in
the advertisement. If I am in error, he will merely suppose that I have
been misled by some circumstance into which he will not take the trouble
to inquire. But if I am right, a great point is gained. Cognizant
although innocent of the murder, the Frenchman will naturally hesitate
about replying to the advertisement--about demanding the Ourang-Outang.
He will reason thus:--'I am innocent; I am poor; my Ourang-Outang is of
great value--to one in my circumstances a fortune of itself--why should
I lose it through idle apprehensions of danger? Here it is, within my
grasp. It was found in the Bois de Boulogne--at a vast distance from the
scene of that butchery. How can it ever be suspected that a brute beast
should have done the deed? The police are at fault--they have failed to
procure the slightest clew. Should they even trace the animal, it would
be impossible to prove me cognizant of the murder, or to implicate me
in guilt on account of that cognizance. Above all, _I am known._ The
advertiser designates me as the possessor of the beast. I am not sure to
what limit his knowledge may extend. Should I avoid claiming a property
of so great value, which it is known that I possess, I will render the
animal at least, liable to suspicion. It is not my policy to attract
attention either to myself or to the beast. I will answer the
advertisement, get the Ourang-Outang, and keep it close until this
matter has blown over.'"

At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.

"Be ready," said Dupin, "with your pistols, but neither use them nor
show them until at a signal from myself."

The front door of the house had been left open, and the visiter had
entered, without ringing, and advanced several steps upon the staircase.
Now, however, he seemed to hesitate. Presently we heard him descending.
Dupin was moving quickly to the door, when we again heard him coming up.
He did not turn back a second time, but stepped up with decision, and
rapped at the door of our chamber.

"Come in," said Dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone.

A man entered. He was a sailor, evidently,--a tall, stout, and
muscular-looking person, with a certain dare-devil expression of
countenance, not altogether unprepossessing. His face, greatly sunburnt,
was more than half hidden by whisker and _mustachio._ He had with him
a huge oaken cudgel, but appeared to be otherwise unarmed. He bowed
awkwardly, and bade us "good evening," in French accents, which,
although somewhat Neufchatelish, were still sufficiently indicative of a
Parisian origin.

"Sit down, my friend," said Dupin. "I suppose you have called about the
Ourang-Outang. Upon my word, I almost envy you the possession of him;
a remarkably fine, and no doubt a very valuable animal. How old do you
suppose him to be?"

The sailor drew a long breath, with the air of a man relieved of some
intolerable burden, and then replied, in an assured tone:

"I have no way of telling--but he can't be more than four or five years
old. Have you got him here?"

"Oh no, we had no conveniences for keeping him here. He is at a livery
stable in the Rue Dubourg, just by. You can get him in the morning. Of
course you are prepared to identify the property?"

"To be sure I am, sir."

"I shall be sorry to part with him," said Dupin.

"I don't mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing, sir,"
said the man. "Couldn't expect it. Am very willing to pay a reward for
the finding of the animal--that is to say, any thing in reason."

"Well," replied my friend, "that is all very fair, to be sure. Let me
think!--what should I have? Oh! I will tell you. My reward shall be
this. You shall give me all the information in your power about these
murders in the Rue Morgue."

Dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly. Just as
quietly, too, he walked toward the door, locked it and put the key in
his pocket. He then drew a pistol from his bosom and placed it, without
the least flurry, upon the table.

The sailor's face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation.
He started to his feet and grasped his cudgel, but the next moment he
fell back into his seat, trembling violently, and with the countenance
of death itself. He spoke not a word. I pitied him from the bottom of my
heart.

"My friend," said Dupin, in a kind tone, "you are alarming yourself
unnecessarily--you are indeed. We mean you no harm whatever. I pledge
you the honor of a gentleman, and of a Frenchman, that we intend you no
injury. I perfectly well know that you are innocent of the atrocities
in the Rue Morgue. It will not do, however, to deny that you are in some
measure implicated in them. From what I have already said, you must know
that I have had means of information about this matter--means of which
you could never have dreamed. Now the thing stands thus. You have done
nothing which you could have avoided--nothing, certainly, which renders
you culpable. You were not even guilty of robbery, when you might have
robbed with impunity. You have nothing to conceal. You have no reason
for concealment. On the other hand, you are bound by every principle
of honor to confess all you know. An innocent man is now imprisoned,
charged with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator."

The sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while
Dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all
gone.

"So help me God," said he, after a brief pause, "I will tell you all I
know about this affair;--but I do not expect you to believe one half I
say--I would be a fool indeed if I did. Still, I am innocent, and I will
make a clean breast if I die for it."

What he stated was, in substance, this. He had lately made a voyage
to the Indian Archipelago. A party, of which he formed one, landed
at Borneo, and passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure.
Himself and a companion had captured the Ourang-Outang. This companion
dying, the animal fell into his own exclusive possession. After great
trouble, occasioned by the intractable ferocity of his captive during
the home voyage, he at length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own
residence in Paris, where, not to attract toward himself the unpleasant
curiosity of his neighbors, he kept it carefully secluded, until such
time as it should recover from a wound in the foot, received from a
splinter on board ship. His ultimate design was to sell it.

Returning home from some sailors' frolic the night, or rather in the
morning of the murder, he found the beast occupying his own bed-room,
into which it had broken from a closet adjoining, where it had been, as
was thought, securely confined. Razor in hand, and fully lathered, it
was sitting before a looking-glass, attempting the operation of shaving,
in which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the
key-hole of the closet. Terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon
in the possession of an animal so ferocious, and so well able to use
it, the man, for some moments, was at a loss what to do. He had been
accustomed, however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods,
by the use of a whip, and to this he now resorted. Upon sight of it, the
Ourang-Outang sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down
the stairs, and thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the
street.

The Frenchman followed in despair; the ape, razor still in hand,
occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer, until
the latter had nearly come up with it. It then again made off. In this
manner the chase continued for a long time. The streets were profoundly
quiet, as it was nearly three o'clock in the morning. In passing down
an alley in the rear of the Rue Morgue, the fugitive's attention was
arrested by a light gleaming from the open window of Madame L'Espanaye's
chamber, in the fourth story of her house. Rushing to the building, it
perceived the lightning rod, clambered up with inconceivable agility,
grasped the shutter, which was thrown fully back against the wall, and,
by its means, swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed. The
whole feat did not occupy a minute. The shutter was kicked open again by
the Ourang-Outang as it entered the room.

The sailor, in the meantime, was both rejoiced and perplexed. He had
strong hopes of now recapturing the brute, as it could scarcely escape
from the trap into which it had ventured, except by the rod, where it
might be intercepted as it came down. On the other hand, there was
much cause for anxiety as to what it might do in the house. This latter
reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive. A lightning rod
is ascended without difficulty, especially by a sailor; but, when he had
arrived as high as the window, which lay far to his left, his career was
stopped; the most that he could accomplish was to reach over so as to
obtain a glimpse of the interior of the room. At this glimpse he nearly
fell from his hold through excess of horror. Now it was that those
hideous shrieks arose upon the night, which had startled from slumber
the inmates of the Rue Morgue. Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter,
habited in their night clothes, had apparently been occupied in
arranging some papers in the iron chest already mentioned, which had
been wheeled into the middle of the room. It was open, and its contents
lay beside it on the floor. The victims must have been sitting with
their backs toward the window; and, from the time elapsing between the
ingress of the beast and the screams, it seems probable that it was not
immediately perceived. The flapping-to of the shutter would naturally
have been attributed to the wind.

As the sailor looked in, the gigantic animal had seized Madame
L'Espanaye by the hair, (which was loose, as she had been combing
it,) and was flourishing the razor about her face, in imitation of the
motions of a barber. The daughter lay prostrate and motionless; she had
swooned. The screams and struggles of the old lady (during which the
hair was torn from her head) had the effect of changing the probably
pacific purposes of the Ourang-Outang into those of wrath. With one
determined sweep of its muscular arm it nearly severed her head from her
body. The sight of blood inflamed its anger into phrenzy. Gnashing its
teeth, and flashing fire from its eyes, it flew upon the body of the
girl, and imbedded its fearful talons in her throat, retaining its grasp
until she expired. Its wandering and wild glances fell at this moment
upon the head of the bed, over which the face of its master, rigid with
horror, was just discernible. The fury of the beast, who no doubt bore
still in mind the dreaded whip, was instantly converted into fear.
Conscious of having deserved punishment, it seemed desirous of
concealing its bloody deeds, and skipped about the chamber in an agony
of nervous agitation; throwing down and breaking the furniture as it
moved, and dragging the bed from the bedstead. In conclusion, it seized
first the corpse of the daughter, and thrust it up the chimney, as
it was found; then that of the old lady, which it immediately hurled
through the window headlong.

As the ape approached the casement with its mutilated burden, the sailor
shrank aghast to the rod, and, rather gliding than clambering down it,
hurried at once home--dreading the consequences of the butchery, and
gladly abandoning, in his terror, all solicitude about the fate of the
Ourang-Outang. The words heard by the party upon the staircase were the
Frenchman's exclamations of horror and affright, commingled with the
fiendish jabberings of the brute.

I have scarcely anything to add. The Ourang-Outang must have escaped
from the chamber, by the rod, just before the break of the door. It
must have closed the window as it passed through it. It was subsequently
caught by the owner himself, who obtained for it a very large sum at the
_Jardin des Plantes._ Le Don was instantly released, upon our narration
of the circumstances (with some comments from Dupin) at the bureau of
the Prefect of Police. This functionary, however well disposed to my
friend, could not altogether conceal his chagrin at the turn which
affairs had taken, and was fain to indulge in a sarcasm or two, about
the propriety of every person minding his own business.

"Let him talk," said Dupin, who had not thought it necessary to reply.
"Let him discourse; it will ease his conscience, I am satisfied with
having defeated him in his own castle. Nevertheless, that he failed
in the solution of this mystery, is by no means that matter for wonder
which he supposes it; for, in truth, our friend the Prefect is somewhat
too cunning to be profound. In his wisdom is no _stamen._ It is all head
and no body, like the pictures of the Goddess Laverna,--or, at best, all
head and shoulders, like a codfish. But he is a good creature after all.
I like him especially for one master stroke of cant, by which he has
attained his reputation for ingenuity. I mean the way he has '_de nier
ce qui est, et d'expliquer ce qui n'est pas._'" (*)

(*) Rousseau--Nouvelle Heloise.




THE MYSTERY OF MARIE ROGET.(*1)

A SEQUEL TO "THE MURDERS IN THE RUE MORGUE."


  Es giebt eine Reihe idealischer Begebenheiten, die der Wirklichkeit
  parallel lauft. Selten fallen sie zusammen. Menschen und zufalle
  modifieiren gewohulich die idealische Begebenheit, so dass sie
  unvollkommen erscheint, und ihre Folgen gleichfalls unvollkommen
  sind. So bei der Reformation; statt des Protestantismus kam das
  Lutherthum hervor.

  There are ideal series of events which run parallel with the real
  ones. They rarely coincide. Men and circumstances generally modify
  the ideal train of events, so that it seems imperfect, and its
  consequences are equally imperfect. Thus with the Reformation;
  instead of Protestantism came Lutheranism.

              --Novalis. (*2) Moral Ansichten.

THERE are few persons, even among the calmest thinkers, who have not
occasionally been startled into a vague yet thrilling half-credence in
the supernatural, by coincidences of so seemingly marvellous a character
that, as mere coincidences, the intellect has been unable to receive
them. Such sentiments--for the half-credences of which I speak have
never the full force of thought--such sentiments are seldom thoroughly
stifled unless by reference to the doctrine of chance, or, as it is
technically termed, the Calculus of Probabilities. Now this Calculus is,
in its essence, purely mathematical; and thus we have the anomaly of the
most rigidly exact in science applied to the shadow and spirituality of
the most intangible in speculation.

The extraordinary details which I am now called upon to make public,
will be found to form, as regards sequence of time, the primary branch
of a series of scarcely intelligible coincidences, whose secondary or
concluding branch will be recognized by all readers in the late murder
of Mary Cecila Rogers, at New York.

When, in an article entitled "The Murders in the Rue Morgue," I
endeavored, about a year ago, to depict some very remarkable features
in the mental character of my friend, the Chevalier C. Auguste Dupin,
it did not occur to me that I should ever resume the subject. This
depicting of character constituted my design; and this design was
thoroughly fulfilled in the wild train of circumstances brought to
instance Dupin's idiosyncrasy. I might have adduced other examples, but
I should have proven no more. Late events, however, in their surprising
development, have startled me into some farther details, which will
carry with them the air of extorted confession. Hearing what I have
lately heard, it would be indeed strange should I remain silent in
regard to what I both heard and saw so long ago.

Upon the winding up of the tragedy involved in the deaths of Madame
L'Espanaye and her daughter, the Chevalier dismissed the affair at once
from his attention, and relapsed into his old habits of moody reverie.
Prone, at all times, to abstraction, I readily fell in with his humor;
and, continuing to occupy our chambers in the Faubourg Saint Germain, we
gave the Future to the winds, and slumbered tranquilly in the Present,
weaving the dull world around us into dreams.

But these dreams were not altogether uninterrupted. It may readily be
supposed that the part played by my friend, in the drama at the Rue
Morgue, had not failed of its impression upon the fancies of the
Parisian police. With its emissaries, the name of Dupin had grown into a
household word. The simple character of those inductions by which he
had disentangled the mystery never having been explained even to the
Prefect, or to any other individual than myself, of course it is not
surprising that the affair was regarded as little less than miraculous,
or that the Chevalier's analytical abilities acquired for him the
credit of intuition. His frankness would have led him to disabuse every
inquirer of such prejudice; but his indolent humor forbade all farther
agitation of a topic whose interest to himself had long ceased. It thus
happened that he found himself the cynosure of the political eyes; and
the cases were not few in which attempt was made to engage his services
at the Prefecture. One of the most remarkable instances was that of the
murder of a young girl named Marie Rogêt.

This event occurred about two years after the atrocity in the Rue
Morgue. Marie, whose Christian and family name will at once arrest
attention from their resemblance to those of the unfortunate
"cigargirl," was the only daughter of the widow Estelle Rogêt. The
father had died during the child's infancy, and from the period of his
death, until within eighteen months before the assassination which forms
the subject of our narrative, the mother and daughter had dwelt together
in the Rue Pavée Saint Andrée; (*3) Madame there keeping a pension,
assisted by Marie. Affairs went on thus until the latter had attained
her twenty-second year, when her great beauty attracted the notice of a
perfumer, who occupied one of the shops in the basement of the Palais
Royal, and whose custom lay chiefly among the desperate adventurers
infesting that neighborhood. Monsieur Le Blanc (*4) was not unaware of
the advantages to be derived from the attendance of the fair Marie in
his perfumery; and his liberal proposals were accepted eagerly by the
girl, although with somewhat more of hesitation by Madame.

The anticipations of the shopkeeper were realized, and his rooms soon
became notorious through the charms of the sprightly grisette. She had
been in his employ about a year, when her admirers were thrown info
confusion by her sudden disappearance from the shop. Monsieur Le Blanc
was unable to account for her absence, and Madame Rogêt was distracted
with anxiety and terror. The public papers immediately took up
the theme, and the police were upon the point of making serious
investigations, when, one fine morning, after the lapse of a week,
Marie, in good health, but with a somewhat saddened air, made her
re-appearance at her usual counter in the perfumery. All inquiry, except
that of a private character, was of course immediately hushed. Monsieur
Le Blanc professed total ignorance, as before. Marie, with Madame,
replied to all questions, that the last week had been spent at the
house of a relation in the country. Thus the affair died away, and was
generally forgotten; for the girl, ostensibly to relieve herself from
the impertinence of curiosity, soon bade a final adieu to the perfumer,
and sought the shelter of her mother's residence in the Rue Pavée Saint
Andrée.

It was about five months after this return home, that her friends were
alarmed by her sudden disappearance for the second time. Three days
elapsed, and nothing was heard of her. On the fourth her corpse was
found floating in the Seine, * near the shore which is opposite the
Quartier of the Rue Saint Andree, and at a point not very far distant
from the secluded neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule. (*6)

The atrocity of this murder, (for it was at once evident that murder had
been committed,) the youth and beauty of the victim, and, above all, her
previous notoriety, conspired to produce intense excitement in the minds
of the sensitive Parisians. I can call to mind no similar occurrence
producing so general and so intense an effect. For several weeks, in
the discussion of this one absorbing theme, even the momentous political
topics of the day were forgotten. The Prefect made unusual exertions;
and the powers of the whole Parisian police were, of course, tasked to
the utmost extent.

Upon the first discovery of the corpse, it was not supposed that the
murderer would be able to elude, for more than a very brief period,
the inquisition which was immediately set on foot. It was not until the
expiration of a week that it was deemed necessary to offer a reward; and
even then this reward was limited to a thousand francs. In the mean time
the investigation proceeded with vigor, if not always with judgment, and
numerous individuals were examined to no purpose; while, owing to the
continual absence of all clue to the mystery, the popular excitement
greatly increased. At the end of the tenth day it was thought advisable
to double the sum originally proposed; and, at length, the second week
having elapsed without leading to any discoveries, and the prejudice
which always exists in Paris against the Police having given vent to
itself in several serious émeutes, the Prefect took it upon himself
to offer the sum of twenty thousand francs "for the conviction of the
assassin," or, if more than one should prove to have been implicated,
"for the conviction of any one of the assassins." In the proclamation
setting forth this reward, a full pardon was promised to any accomplice
who should come forward in evidence against his fellow; and to the whole
was appended, wherever it appeared, the private placard of a committee
of citizens, offering ten thousand francs, in addition to the amount
proposed by the Prefecture. The entire reward thus stood at no less than
thirty thousand francs, which will be regarded as an extraordinary
sum when we consider the humble condition of the girl, and the great
frequency, in large cities, of such atrocities as the one described.

No one doubted now that the mystery of this murder would be immediately
brought to light. But although, in one or two instances, arrests were
made which promised elucidation, yet nothing was elicited which could
implicate the parties suspected; and they were discharged forthwith.
Strange as it may appear, the third week from the discovery of the body
had passed, and passed without any light being thrown upon the subject,
before even a rumor of the events which had so agitated the public
mind, reached the ears of Dupin and myself. Engaged in researches which
absorbed our whole attention, it had been nearly a month since either of
us had gone abroad, or received a visiter, or more than glanced at
the leading political articles in one of the daily papers. The first
intelligence of the murder was brought us by G ----, in person. He
called upon us early in the afternoon of the thirteenth of July, 18--,
and remained with us until late in the night. He had been piqued by
the failure of all his endeavors to ferret out the assassins. His
reputation--so he said with a peculiarly Parisian air--was at stake.
Even his honor was concerned. The eyes of the public were upon him; and
there was really no sacrifice which he would not be willing to make for
the development of the mystery. He concluded a somewhat droll speech
with a compliment upon what he was pleased to term the tact of Dupin,
and made him a direct, and certainly a liberal proposition, the precise
nature of which I do not feel myself at liberty to disclose, but which
has no bearing upon the proper subject of my narrative.

The compliment my friend rebutted as best he could, but the proposition
he accepted at once, although its advantages were altogether
provisional. This point being settled, the Prefect broke forth at
once into explanations of his own views, interspersing them with
long comments upon the evidence; of which latter we were not yet in
possession. He discoursed much, and beyond doubt, learnedly; while
I hazarded an occasional suggestion as the night wore drowsily away.
Dupin, sitting steadily in his accustomed arm-chair, was the embodiment
of respectful attention. He wore spectacles, during the whole interview;
and an occasional signal glance beneath their green glasses, sufficed
to convince me that he slept not the less soundly, because silently,
throughout the seven or eight leaden-footed hours which immediately
preceded the departure of the Prefect.

In the morning, I procured, at the Prefecture, a full report of all
the evidence elicited, and, at the various newspaper offices, a copy
of every paper in which, from first to last, had been published any
decisive information in regard to this sad affair. Freed from all that
was positively disproved, this mass of information stood thus:

Marie Rogêt left the residence of her mother, in the Rue Pavée
St. Andrée, about nine o'clock in the morning of Sunday June the
twenty-second, 18--. In going out, she gave notice to a Monsieur Jacques
St. Eustache, (*7) and to him only, of her intent intention to spend the
day with an aunt who resided in the Rue des Drômes. The Rue des Drômes
is a short and narrow but populous thoroughfare, not far from the banks
of the river, and at a distance of some two miles, in the most direct
course possible, from the pension of Madame Rogêt. St. Eustache was the
accepted suitor of Marie, and lodged, as well as took his meals, at
the pension. He was to have gone for his betrothed at dusk, and to
have escorted her home. In the afternoon, however, it came on to rain
heavily; and, supposing that she would remain all night at her aunt's,
(as she had done under similar circumstances before,) he did not think
it necessary to keep his promise. As night drew on, Madame Rogêt (who
was an infirm old lady, seventy years of age,) was heard to express
a fear "that she should never see Marie again;" but this observation
attracted little attention at the time.

On Monday, it was ascertained that the girl had not been to the Rue des
Drômes; and when the day elapsed without tidings of her, a tardy search
was instituted at several points in the city, and its environs. It was
not, however until the fourth day from the period of disappearance that
any thing satisfactory was ascertained respecting her. On this day,
(Wednesday, the twenty-fifth of June,) a Monsieur Beauvais, (*8) who,
with a friend, had been making inquiries for Marie near the Barrière
du Roule, on the shore of the Seine which is opposite the Rue Pavée St.
Andrée, was informed that a corpse had just been towed ashore by some
fishermen, who had found it floating in the river. Upon seeing the
body, Beauvais, after some hesitation, identified it as that of the
perfumery-girl. His friend recognized it more promptly.

The face was suffused with dark blood, some of which issued from the
mouth. No foam was seen, as in the case of the merely drowned. There was
no discoloration in the cellular tissue. About the throat were bruises
and impressions of fingers. The arms were bent over on the chest and
were rigid. The right hand was clenched; the left partially open. On
the left wrist were two circular excoriations, apparently the effect
of ropes, or of a rope in more than one volution. A part of the right
wrist, also, was much chafed, as well as the back throughout its extent,
but more especially at the shoulder-blades. In bringing the body to
the shore the fishermen had attached to it a rope; but none of the
excoriations had been effected by this. The flesh of the neck was much
swollen. There were no cuts apparent, or bruises which appeared the
effect of blows. A piece of lace was found tied so tightly around the
neck as to be hidden from sight; it was completely buried in the flesh,
and was fasted by a knot which lay just under the left ear. This alone
would have sufficed to produce death. The medical testimony spoke
confidently of the virtuous character of the deceased. She had been
subjected, it said, to brutal violence. The corpse was in such condition
when found, that there could have been no difficulty in its recognition
by friends.

The dress was much torn and otherwise disordered. In the outer garment,
a slip, about a foot wide, had been torn upward from the bottom hem to
the waist, but not torn off. It was wound three times around the waist,
and secured by a sort of hitch in the back. The dress immediately
beneath the frock was of fine muslin; and from this a slip eighteen
inches wide had been torn entirely out--torn very evenly and with great
care. It was found around her neck, fitting loosely, and secured with a
hard knot. Over this muslin slip and the slip of lace, the strings of a
bonnet were attached; the bonnet being appended. The knot by which the
strings of the bonnet were fastened, was not a lady's, but a slip or
sailor's knot.

After the recognition of the corpse, it was not, as usual, taken to the
Morgue, (this formality being superfluous,) but hastily interred not far
from the spot at which it was brought ashore. Through the exertions of
Beauvais, the matter was industriously hushed up, as far as possible;
and several days had elapsed before any public emotion resulted. A
weekly paper, (*9) however, at length took up the theme; the corpse was
disinterred, and a re-examination instituted; but nothing was elicited
beyond what has been already noted. The clothes, however, were
now submitted to the mother and friends of the deceased, and fully
identified as those worn by the girl upon leaving home.

Meantime, the excitement increased hourly. Several individuals were
arrested and discharged. St. Eustache fell especially under suspicion;
and he failed, at first, to give an intelligible account of his
whereabouts during the Sunday on which Marie left home. Subsequently,
however, he submitted to Monsieur G----, affidavits, accounting
satisfactorily for every hour of the day in question. As time passed and
no discovery ensued, a thousand contradictory rumors were circulated,
and journalists busied themselves in suggestions. Among these, the one
which attracted the most notice, was the idea that Marie Rogêt still
lived--that the corpse found in the Seine was that of some other
unfortunate. It will be proper that I submit to the reader some passages
which embody the suggestion alluded to. These passages are literal
translations from L'Etoile, (*10) a paper conducted, in general, with
much ability.

"Mademoiselle Rogêt left her mother's house on Sunday morning, June the
twenty-second, 18--, with the ostensible purpose of going to see her
aunt, or some other connexion, in the Rue des Drômes. From that hour,
nobody is proved to have seen her. There is no trace or tidings of her
at all.... There has no person, whatever, come forward, so far, who
saw her at all, on that day, after she left her mother's door.... Now,
though we have no evidence that Marie Rogêt was in the land of the
living after nine o'clock on Sunday, June the twenty-second, we have
proof that, up to that hour, she was alive. On Wednesday noon, at
twelve, a female body was discovered afloat on the shore of the Barrière
de Roule. This was, even if we presume that Marie Rogêt was thrown into
the river within three hours after she left her mother's house, only
three days from the time she left her home--three days to an hour. But
it is folly to suppose that the murder, if murder was committed on
her body, could have been consummated soon enough to have enabled her
murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight. Those who
are guilty of such horrid crimes, choose darkness rather the light....
Thus we see that if the body found in the river was that of Marie Rogêt,
it could only have been in the water two and a half days, or three at
the outside. All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies
thrown into the water immediately after death by violence, require from
six to ten days for decomposition to take place to bring them to the top
of the water. Even where a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises
before at least five or six days' immersion, it sinks again, if let
alone. Now, we ask, what was there in this cave to cause a departure
from the ordinary course of nature?... If the body had been kept in its
mangled state on shore until Tuesday night, some trace would be found on
shore of the murderers. It is a doubtful point, also, whether the body
would be so soon afloat, even were it thrown in after having been
dead two days. And, furthermore, it is exceedingly improbable that any
villains who had committed such a murder as is here supposed, would
have thrown the body in without weight to sink it, when such a precaution
could have so easily been taken."

The editor here proceeds to argue that the body must have been in the
water "not three days merely, but, at least, five times three days,"
because it was so far decomposed that Beauvais had great difficulty
in recognizing it. This latter point, however, was fully disproved. I
continue the translation:

"What, then, are the facts on which M. Beauvais says that he has no
doubt the body was that of Marie Rogêt? He ripped up the gown sleeve,
and says he found marks which satisfied him of the identity. The public
generally supposed those marks to have consisted of some description
of scars. He rubbed the arm and found hair upon it--something as
indefinite, we think, as can readily be imagined--as little conclusive
as finding an arm in the sleeve. M. Beauvais did not return that night,
but sent word to Madame Rogêt, at seven o'clock, on Wednesday evening,
that an investigation was still in progress respecting her daughter. If
we allow that Madame Rogêt, from her age and grief, could not go over,
(which is allowing a great deal,) there certainly must have been some
one who would have thought it worth while to go over and attend the
investigation, if they thought the body was that of Marie. Nobody went
over. There was nothing said or heard about the matter in the Rue Pavée
St. Andrée, that reached even the occupants of the same building. M. St.
Eustache, the lover and intended husband of Marie, who boarded in her
mother's house, deposes that he did not hear of the discovery of the
body of his intended until the next morning, when M. Beauvais came
into his chamber and told him of it. For an item of news like this, it
strikes us it was very coolly received."

In this way the journal endeavored to create the impression of an apathy
on the part of the relatives of Marie, inconsistent with the supposition
that these relatives believed the corpse to be hers. Its insinuations
amount to this:--that Marie, with the connivance of her friends, had
absented herself from the city for reasons involving a charge against
her chastity; and that these friends, upon the discovery of a corpse in
the Seine, somewhat resembling that of the girl, had availed themselves
of the opportunity to impress the public with the belief of her
death. But L'Etoile was again over-hasty. It was distinctly proved
that no apathy, such as was imagined, existed; that the old lady was
exceedingly feeble, and so agitated as to be unable to attend to any
duty, that St. Eustache, so far from receiving the news coolly, was
distracted with grief, and bore himself so frantically, that M. Beauvais
prevailed upon a friend and relative to take charge of him, and prevent
his attending the examination at the disinterment. Moreover, although
it was stated by L'Etoile, that the corpse was re-interred at the public
expense--that an advantageous offer of private sculpture was absolutely
declined by the family--and that no member of the family attended the
ceremonial:--although, I say, all this was asserted by L'Etoile in
furtherance of the impression it designed to convey--yet all this
was satisfactorily disproved. In a subsequent number of the paper, an
attempt was made to throw suspicion upon Beauvais himself. The editor
says:

"Now, then, a change comes over the matter. We are told that on one
occasion, while a Madame B---- was at Madame Rogêt's house, M. Beauvais,
who was going out, told her that a gendarme was expected there, and she,
Madame B., must not say anything to the gendarme until he returned,
but let the matter be for him.... In the present posture of affairs,
M. Beauvais appears to have the whole matter locked up in his head. A
single step cannot be taken without M. Beauvais; for, go which way you
will, you run against him.... For some reason, he determined that nobody
shall have any thing to do with the proceedings but himself, and he
has elbowed the male relatives out of the way, according to their
representations, in a very singular manner. He seems to have been very
much averse to permitting the relatives to see the body."

By the following fact, some color was given to the suspicion thus thrown
upon Beauvais. A visiter at his office, a few days prior to the girl's
disappearance, and during the absence of its occupant, had observed a
rose in the key-hole of the door, and the name "Marie" inscribed upon a
slate which hung near at hand.

The general impression, so far as we were enabled to glean it from the
newspapers, seemed to be, that Marie had been the victim of a gang
of desperadoes--that by these she had been borne across the river,
maltreated and murdered. Le Commerciel, (*11) however, a print of
extensive influence, was earnest in combating this popular idea. I quote
a passage or two from its columns:

"We are persuaded that pursuit has hitherto been on a false scent, so
far as it has been directed to the Barrière du Roule. It is impossible
that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should
have passed three blocks without some one having seen her; and any one
who saw her would have remembered it, for she interested all who knew
her. It was when the streets were full of people, when she went out....
It is impossible that she could have gone to the Barrière du Roule, or
to the Rue des Drômes, without being recognized by a dozen persons; yet
no one has come forward who saw her outside of her mother's door, and
there is no evidence, except the testimony concerning her expressed
intentions, that she did go out at all. Her gown was torn, bound round
her, and tied; and by that the body was carried as a bundle. If the
murder had been committed at the Barrière du Roule, there would have
been no necessity for any such arrangement. The fact that the body was
found floating near the Barrière, is no proof as to where it was thrown
into the water..... A piece of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats,
two feet long and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin
around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams. This was done
by fellows who had no pocket-handkerchief."

A day or two before the Prefect called upon us, however, some important
information reached the police, which seemed to overthrow, at least,
the chief portion of Le Commerciel's argument. Two small boys, sons of a
Madame Deluc, while roaming among the woods near the Barrière du Roule,
chanced to penetrate a close thicket, within which were three or four
large stones, forming a kind of seat, with a back and footstool. On
the upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf. A
parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief were also here found. The
handkerchief bore the name "Marie Rogêt." Fragments of dress were
discovered on the brambles around. The earth was trampled, the bushes
were broken, and there was every evidence of a struggle. Between the
thicket and the river, the fences were found taken down, and the ground
bore evidence of some heavy burthen having been dragged along it.

A weekly paper, Le Soleil,(*12) had the following comments upon this
discovery--comments which merely echoed the sentiment of the whole
Parisian press:

"The things had all evidently been there at least three or four weeks;
they were all mildewed down hard with the action of the rain and stuck
together from mildew. The grass had grown around and over some of them.
The silk on the parasol was strong, but the threads of it were run
together within. The upper part, where it had been doubled and folded,
was all mildewed and rotten, and tore on its being opened..... The
pieces of her frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide
and six inches long. One part was the hem of the frock, and it had been
mended; the other piece was part of the skirt, not the hem. They looked
like strips torn off, and were on the thorn bush, about a foot from
the ground..... There can be no doubt, therefore, that the spot of this
appalling outrage has been discovered."

Consequent upon this discovery, new evidence appeared. Madame Deluc
testified that she keeps a roadside inn not far from the bank of the
river, opposite the Barrière du Roule. The neighborhood is
secluded--particularly so. It is the usual Sunday resort of blackguards
from the city, who cross the river in boats. About three o'clock, in the
afternoon of the Sunday in question, a young girl arrived at the inn,
accompanied by a young man of dark complexion. The two remained here for
some time. On their departure, they took the road to some thick woods in
the vicinity. Madame Deluc's attention was called to the dress worn by
the girl, on account of its resemblance to one worn by a deceased
relative. A scarf was particularly noticed. Soon after the departure of
the couple, a gang of miscreants made their appearance, behaved
boisterously, ate and drank without making payment, followed in the
route of the young man and girl, returned to the inn about dusk, and
re-crossed the river as if in great haste.

It was soon after dark, upon this same evening, that Madame Deluc, as
well as her eldest son, heard the screams of a female in the vicinity
of the inn. The screams were violent but brief. Madame D. recognized not
only the scarf which was found in the thicket, but the dress which was
discovered upon the corpse. An omnibus driver, Valence, (*13) now also
testified that he saw Marie Rogêt cross a ferry on the Seine, on the
Sunday in question, in company with a young man of dark complexion.
He, Valence, knew Marie, and could not be mistaken in her identity. The
articles found in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of
Marie.

The items of evidence and information thus collected by myself, from
the newspapers, at the suggestion of Dupin, embraced only one more
point--but this was a point of seemingly vast consequence. It appears
that, immediately after the discovery of the clothes as above described,
the lifeless, or nearly lifeless body of St. Eustache, Marie's
betrothed, was found in the vicinity of what all now supposed the scene
of the outrage. A phial labelled "laudanum," and emptied, was found near
him. His breath gave evidence of the poison. He died without speaking.
Upon his person was found a letter, briefly stating his love for Marie,
with his design of self-destruction.

"I need scarcely tell you," said Dupin, as he finished the perusal of
my notes, "that this is a far more intricate case than that of the
Rue Morgue; from which it differs in one important respect. This is
an ordinary, although an atrocious instance of crime. There is nothing
peculiarly outré about it. You will observe that, for this reason, the
mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should have
been considered difficult, of solution. Thus; at first, it was thought
unnecessary to offer a reward. The myrmidons of G---- were able at once
to comprehend how and why such an atrocity might have been committed.
They could picture to their imaginations a mode--many modes--and a
motive--many motives; and because it was not impossible that either of
these numerous modes and motives could have been the actual one, they
have taken it for granted that one of them must. But the case with which
these variable fancies were entertained, and the very plausibility which
each assumed, should have been understood as indicative rather of the
difficulties than of the facilities which must attend elucidation. I
have before observed that it is by prominences above the plane of the
ordinary, that reason feels her way, if at all, in her search for the
true, and that the proper question in cases such as this, is not so
much 'what has occurred?' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred
before?' In the investigations at the house of Madame L'Espanaye,
(*14) the agents of G---- were discouraged and confounded by that
very unusualness which, to a properly regulated intellect, would have
afforded the surest omen of success; while this same intellect might
have been plunged in despair at the ordinary character of all that met
the eye in the case of the perfumery-girl, and yet told of nothing but
easy triumph to the functionaries of the Prefecture.

"In the case of Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter there was, even
at the beginning of our investigation, no doubt that murder had been
committed. The idea of suicide was excluded at once. Here, too, we are
freed, at the commencement, from all supposition of self-murder. The
body found at the Barrière du Roule, was found under such circumstances
as to leave us no room for embarrassment upon this important point. But
it has been suggested that the corpse discovered, is not that of the
Marie Rogêt for the conviction of whose assassin, or assassins, the
reward is offered, and respecting whom, solely, our agreement has been
arranged with the Prefect. We both know this gentleman well. It will not
do to trust him too far. If, dating our inquiries from the body found,
and thence tracing a murderer, we yet discover this body to be that of
some other individual than Marie; or, if starting from the living Marie,
we find her, yet find her unassassinated--in either case we lose our
labor; since it is Monsieur G---- with whom we have to deal. For our
own purpose, therefore, if not for the purpose of justice, it is
indispensable that our first step should be the determination of the
identity of the corpse with the Marie Rogêt who is missing.

"With the public the arguments of L'Etoile have had weight; and that the
journal itself is convinced of their importance would appear from
the manner in which it commences one of its essays upon the
subject--'Several of the morning papers of the day,' it says, 'speak of
the _conclusive_ article in Monday's Etoile.' To me, this article
appears conclusive of little beyond the zeal of its inditer. We should
bear in mind that, in general, it is the object of our newspapers rather
to create a sensation--to make a point--than to further the cause of
truth. The latter end is only pursued when it seems coincident with the
former. The print which merely falls in with ordinary opinion (however
well founded this opinion may be) earns for itself no credit with the
mob. The mass of the people regard as profound only him who suggests
_pungent contradictions_ of the general idea. In ratiocination, not less
than in literature, it is the epigram which is the most immediately and
the most universally appreciated. In both, it is of the lowest order of
merit.

"What I mean to say is, that it is the mingled epigram and melodrame
of the idea, that Marie Rogêt still lives, rather than any true
plausibility in this idea, which have suggested it to L'Etoile, and
secured it a favorable reception with the public. Let us examine the
heads of this journal's argument; endeavoring to avoid the incoherence
with which it is originally set forth.

"The first aim of the writer is to show, from the brevity of the
interval between Marie's disappearance and the finding of the floating
corpse, that this corpse cannot be that of Marie. The reduction of this
interval to its smallest possible dimension, becomes thus, at once, an
object with the reasoner. In the rash pursuit of this object, he rushes
into mere assumption at the outset. 'It is folly to suppose,' he says,
'that the murder, if murder was committed on her body, could have been
consummated soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body
into the river before midnight.' We demand at once, and very naturally,
why? Why is it folly to suppose that the murder was committed _within
five minutes_ after the girl's quitting her mother's house? Why is it
folly to suppose that the murder was committed at any given period
of the day? There have been assassinations at all hours. But, had the
murder taken place at any moment between nine o'clock in the morning of
Sunday, and a quarter before midnight, there would still have been
time enough 'to throw the body into the river before midnight.' This
assumption, then, amounts precisely to this--that the murder was not
committed on Sunday at all--and, if we allow L'Etoile to assume this,
we may permit it any liberties whatever. The paragraph beginning 'It is
folly to suppose that the murder, etc.,' however it appears as printed
in L'Etoile, may be imagined to have existed actually thus in the brain
of its inditer--'It is folly to suppose that the murder, if murder was
committed on the body, could have been committed soon enough to have
enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight;
it is folly, we say, to suppose all this, and to suppose at the same
time, (as we are resolved to suppose,) that the body was not thrown
in until after midnight'--a sentence sufficiently inconsequential in
itself, but not so utterly preposterous as the one printed.

"Were it my purpose," continued Dupin, "merely to _make out a case_
against this passage of L'Etoile's argument, I might safely leave it
where it is. It is not, however, with L'Etoile that we have to do, but
with the truth. The sentence in question has but one meaning, as it
stands; and this meaning I have fairly stated: but it is material
that we go behind the mere words, for an idea which these words have
obviously intended, and failed to convey. It was the design of the
journalist to say that, at whatever period of the day or night of Sunday
this murder was committed, it was improbable that the assassins would
have ventured to bear the corpse to the river before midnight. And
herein lies, really, the assumption of which I complain. It is assumed
that the murder was committed at such a position, and under such
circumstances, that the bearing it to the river became necessary. Now,
the assassination might have taken place upon the river's brink, or on
the river itself; and, thus, the throwing the corpse in the water might
have been resorted to, at any period of the day or night, as the most
obvious and most immediate mode of disposal. You will understand that I
suggest nothing here as probable, or as cöincident with my own opinion.
My design, so far, has no reference to the facts of the case. I wish
merely to caution you against the whole tone of L'Etoile's suggestion,
by calling your attention to its ex parte character at the outset.

"Having prescribed thus a limit to suit its own preconceived notions;
having assumed that, if this were the body of Marie, it could have been
in the water but a very brief time; the journal goes on to say:

'All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the
water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days
for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top
of the water. Even when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises
before at least five or six days' immersion, it sinks again if let
alone.'

"These assertions have been tacitly received by every paper in Paris,
with the exception of Le Moniteur. (*15) This latter print endeavors
to combat that portion of the paragraph which has reference to 'drowned
bodies' only, by citing some five or six instances in which the bodies
of individuals known to be drowned were found floating after the lapse
of less time than is insisted upon by L'Etoile. But there is something
excessively unphilosophical in the attempt on the part of Le Moniteur,
to rebut the general assertion of L'Etoile, by a citation of particular
instances militating against that assertion. Had it been possible to
adduce fifty instead of five examples of bodies found floating at the
end of two or three days, these fifty examples could still have been
properly regarded only as exceptions to L'Etoile's rule, until such time
as the rule itself should be confuted. Admitting the rule, (and this
Le Moniteur does not deny, insisting merely upon its exceptions,) the
argument of L'Etoile is suffered to remain in full force; for this
argument does not pretend to involve more than a question of the
probability of the body having risen to the surface in less than three
days; and this probability will be in favor of L'Etoile's position until
the instances so childishly adduced shall be sufficient in number to
establish an antagonistical rule.

"You will see at once that all argument upon this head should be urged,
if at all, against the rule itself; and for this end we must examine the
rationale of the rule. Now the human body, in general, is neither much
lighter nor much heavier than the water of the Seine; that is to say,
the specific gravity of the human body, in its natural condition, is
about equal to the bulk of fresh water which it displaces. The bodies
of fat and fleshy persons, with small bones, and of women generally,
are lighter than those of the lean and large-boned, and of men; and the
specific gravity of the water of a river is somewhat influenced by the
presence of the tide from sea. But, leaving this tide out of question,
it may be said that very few human bodies will sink at all, even in
fresh water, of their own accord. Almost any one, falling into a river,
will be enabled to float, if he suffer the specific gravity of the water
fairly to be adduced in comparison with his own--that is to say, if
he suffer his whole person to be immersed, with as little exception as
possible. The proper position for one who cannot swim, is the upright
position of the walker on land, with the head thrown fully back, and
immersed; the mouth and nostrils alone remaining above the surface.
Thus circumstanced, we shall find that we float without difficulty and
without exertion. It is evident, however, that the gravities of the
body, and of the bulk of water displaced, are very nicely balanced, and
that a trifle will cause either to preponderate. An arm, for instance,
uplifted from the water, and thus deprived of its support, is an
additional weight sufficient to immerse the whole head, while the
accidental aid of the smallest piece of timber will enable us to elevate
the head so as to look about. Now, in the struggles of one unused to
swimming, the arms are invariably thrown upwards, while an attempt is
made to keep the head in its usual perpendicular position. The result
is the immersion of the mouth and nostrils, and the inception, during
efforts to breathe while beneath the surface, of water into the lungs.
Much is also received into the stomach, and the whole body becomes
heavier by the difference between the weight of the air originally
distending these cavities, and that of the fluid which now fills them.
This difference is sufficient to cause the body to sink, as a general
rule; but is insufficient in the cases of individuals with small bones
and an abnormal quantity of flaccid or fatty matter. Such individuals
float even after drowning.

"The corpse, being supposed at the bottom of the river, will there
remain until, by some means, its specific gravity again becomes less
than that of the bulk of water which it displaces. This effect
is brought about by decomposition, or otherwise. The result of
decomposition is the generation of gas, distending the cellular tissues
and all the cavities, and giving the puffed appearance which is so
horrible. When this distension has so far progressed that the bulk of
the corpse is materially increased without a corresponding increase of
mass or weight, its specific gravity becomes less than that of the water
displaced, and it forthwith makes its appearance at the surface. But
decomposition is modified by innumerable circumstances--is hastened or
retarded by innumerable agencies; for example, by the heat or cold of
the season, by the mineral impregnation or purity of the water, by its
depth or shallowness, by its currency or stagnation, by the temperament
of the body, by its infection or freedom from disease before death.
Thus it is evident that we can assign no period, with any thing like
accuracy, at which the corpse shall rise through decomposition. Under
certain conditions this result would be brought about within an hour;
under others, it might not take place at all. There are chemical
infusions by which the animal frame can be preserved forever from
corruption; the Bi-chloride of Mercury is one. But, apart from
decomposition, there may be, and very usually is, a generation of gas
within the stomach, from the acetous fermentation of vegetable matter
(or within other cavities from other causes) sufficient to induce a
distension which will bring the body to the surface. The effect produced
by the firing of a cannon is that of simple vibration. This may either
loosen the corpse from the soft mud or ooze in which it is imbedded,
thus permitting it to rise when other agencies have already prepared
it for so doing; or it may overcome the tenacity of some putrescent
portions of the cellular tissue; allowing the cavities to distend under
the influence of the gas.

"Having thus before us the whole philosophy of this subject, we can
easily test by it the assertions of L'Etoile. 'All experience shows,'
says this paper, 'that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water
immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days for
sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the
water. Even when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at
least five or six days' immersion, it sinks again if let alone.'

"The whole of this paragraph must now appear a tissue of inconsequence
and incoherence. All experience does not show that 'drowned bodies'
require from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place
to bring them to the surface. Both science and experience show that the
period of their rising is, and necessarily must be, indeterminate. If,
moreover, a body has risen to the surface through firing of cannon,
it will not 'sink again if let alone,' until decomposition has so far
progressed as to permit the escape of the generated gas. But I wish to
call your attention to the distinction which is made between 'drowned
bodies,' and 'bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by
violence.' Although the writer admits the distinction, he yet includes
them all in the same category. I have shown how it is that the body of
a drowning man becomes specifically heavier than its bulk of water,
and that he would not sink at all, except for the struggles by which
he elevates his arms above the surface, and his gasps for breath while
beneath the surface--gasps which supply by water the place of the
original air in the lungs. But these struggles and these gasps would
not occur in the body 'thrown into the water immediately after death by
violence.' Thus, in the latter instance, the body, as a general rule,
would not sink at all--a fact of which L'Etoile is evidently ignorant.
When decomposition had proceeded to a very great extent--when the flesh
had in a great measure left the bones--then, indeed, but not till then,
should we lose sight of the corpse.

"And now what are we to make of the argument, that the body found could
not be that of Marie Rogêt, because, three days only having elapsed,
this body was found floating? If drowned, being a woman, she might never
have sunk; or having sunk, might have reappeared in twenty-four hours,
or less. But no one supposes her to have been drowned; and, dying before
being thrown into the river, she might have been found floating at any
period afterwards whatever.

"'But,' says L'Etoile, 'if the body had been kept in its mangled state
on shore until Tuesday night, some trace would be found on shore of the
murderers.' Here it is at first difficult to perceive the intention
of the reasoner. He means to anticipate what he imagines would be an
objection to his theory--viz: that the body was kept on shore two days,
suffering rapid decomposition--more rapid than if immersed in water. He
supposes that, had this been the case, it might have appeared at the
surface on the Wednesday, and thinks that only under such circumstances
it could so have appeared. He is accordingly in haste to show that it
was not kept on shore; for, if so, 'some trace would be found on shore
of the murderers.' I presume you smile at the sequitur. You cannot
be made to see how the mere duration of the corpse on the shore could
operate to multiply traces of the assassins. Nor can I.

"'And furthermore it is exceedingly improbable,' continues our journal,
'that any villains who had committed such a murder as is here supposed,
would have thrown the body in without weight to sink it, when such
a precaution could have so easily been taken.' Observe, here, the
laughable confusion of thought! No one--not even L'Etoile--disputes
the murder committed _on the body found_. The marks of violence are too
obvious. It is our reasoner's object merely to show that this body is
not Marie's. He wishes to prove that Marie is not assassinated--not that
the corpse was not. Yet his observation proves only the latter point.
Here is a corpse without weight attached. Murderers, casting it in,
would not have failed to attach a weight. Therefore it was not thrown in
by murderers. This is all which is proved, if any thing is. The question
of identity is not even approached, and L'Etoile has been at great pains
merely to gainsay now what it has admitted only a moment before. 'We
are perfectly convinced,' it says, 'that the body found was that of a
murdered female.'

"Nor is this the sole instance, even in this division of his subject,
where our reasoner unwittingly reasons against himself. His evident
object, I have already said, is to reduce, as much as possible, the
interval between Marie's disappearance and the finding of the corpse.
Yet we find him urging the point that no person saw the girl from the
moment of her leaving her mother's house. 'We have no evidence,' he
says, 'that Marie Rogêt was in the land of the living after nine o'clock
on Sunday, June the twenty-second.' As his argument is obviously an ex
parte one, he should, at least, have left this matter out of sight; for
had any one been known to see Marie, say on Monday, or on Tuesday,
the interval in question would have been much reduced, and, by his own
ratiocination, the probability much diminished of the corpse being that
of the grisette. It is, nevertheless, amusing to observe that L'Etoile
insists upon its point in the full belief of its furthering its general
argument.

"Reperuse now that portion of this argument which has reference to the
identification of the corpse by Beauvais. In regard to the hair upon the
arm, L'Etoile has been obviously disingenuous. M. Beauvais, not being an
idiot, could never have urged, in identification of the corpse, simply
hair upon its arm. No arm is without hair. The generality of the
expression of L'Etoile is a mere perversion of the witness' phraseology.
He must have spoken of some peculiarity in this hair. It must have been
a peculiarity of color, of quantity, of length, or of situation.

"'Her foot,' says the journal, 'was small--so are thousands of feet. Her
garter is no proof whatever--nor is her shoe--for shoes and garters are
sold in packages. The same may be said of the flowers in her hat. One
thing upon which M. Beauvais strongly insists is, that the clasp on the
garter found, had been set back to take it in. This amounts to nothing;
for most women find it proper to take a pair of garters home and fit
them to the size of the limbs they are to encircle, rather than to try
them in the store where they purchase.' Here it is difficult to suppose
the reasoner in earnest. Had M. Beauvais, in his search for the body of
Marie, discovered a corpse corresponding in general size and appearance
to the missing girl, he would have been warranted (without reference to
the question of habiliment at all) in forming an opinion that his search
had been successful. If, in addition to the point of general size and
contour, he had found upon the arm a peculiar hairy appearance which he
had observed upon the living Marie, his opinion might have been justly
strengthened; and the increase of positiveness might well have been in
the ratio of the peculiarity, or unusualness, of the hairy mark. If,
the feet of Marie being small, those of the corpse were also small, the
increase of probability that the body was that of Marie would not be an
increase in a ratio merely arithmetical, but in one highly geometrical,
or accumulative. Add to all this shoes such as she had been known to
wear upon the day of her disappearance, and, although these shoes may be
'sold in packages,' you so far augment the probability as to verge upon
the certain. What, of itself, would be no evidence of identity, becomes
through its corroborative position, proof most sure. Give us, then,
flowers in the hat corresponding to those worn by the missing girl, and
we seek for nothing farther. If only one flower, we seek for nothing
farther--what then if two or three, or more? Each successive one
is multiple evidence--proof not _added_ to proof, but multiplied by
hundreds or thousands. Let us now discover, upon the deceased, garters
such as the living used, and it is almost folly to proceed. But these
garters are found to be tightened, by the setting back of a clasp,
in just such a manner as her own had been tightened by Marie, shortly
previous to her leaving home. It is now madness or hypocrisy to doubt.
What L'Etoile says in respect to this abbreviation of the garter's being
an usual occurrence, shows nothing beyond its own pertinacity in error.
The elastic nature of the clasp-garter is self-demonstration of the
unusualness of the abbreviation. What is made to adjust itself, must of
necessity require foreign adjustment but rarely. It must have been by an
accident, in its strictest sense, that these garters of Marie needed
the tightening described. They alone would have amply established her
identity. But it is not that the corpse was found to have the garters
of the missing girl, or found to have her shoes, or her bonnet, or the
flowers of her bonnet, or her feet, or a peculiar mark upon the arm,
or her general size and appearance--it is that the corpse had each,
and _all collectively_. Could it be proved that the editor of L'Etoile
_really_ entertained a doubt, under the circumstances, there would be
no need, in his case, of a commission de lunatico inquirendo. He has
thought it sagacious to echo the small talk of the lawyers, who, for the
most part, content themselves with echoing the rectangular precepts of
the courts. I would here observe that very much of what is rejected as
evidence by a court, is the best of evidence to the intellect. For
the court, guiding itself by the general principles of evidence--the
recognized and _booked_ principles--is averse from swerving at
particular instances. And this steadfast adherence to principle, with
rigorous disregard of the conflicting exception, is a sure mode of
attaining the maximum of attainable truth, in any long sequence of time.
The practice, in mass, is therefore philosophical; but it is not the
less certain that it engenders vast individual error. (*16)

"In respect to the insinuations levelled at Beauvais, you will be
willing to dismiss them in a breath. You have already fathomed the
true character of this good gentleman. He is a busy-body, with much
of romance and little of wit. Any one so constituted will readily so
conduct himself, upon occasion of real excitement, as to render himself
liable to suspicion on the part of the over acute, or the ill-disposed.
M. Beauvais (as it appears from your notes) had some personal interviews
with the editor of L'Etoile, and offended him by venturing an opinion
that the corpse, notwithstanding the theory of the editor, was, in sober
fact, that of Marie. 'He persists,' says the paper, 'in asserting the
corpse to be that of Marie, but cannot give a circumstance, in addition
to those which we have commented upon, to make others believe.' Now,
without re-adverting to the fact that stronger evidence 'to make others
believe,' could never have been adduced, it may be remarked that a man
may very well be understood to believe, in a case of this kind, without
the ability to advance a single reason for the belief of a second party.
Nothing is more vague than impressions of individual identity. Each man
recognizes his neighbor, yet there are few instances in which any one
is prepared to give a reason for his recognition. The editor of L'Etoile
had no right to be offended at M. Beauvais' unreasoning belief.

"The suspicious circumstances which invest him, will be found to tally
much better with my hypothesis of romantic busy-bodyism, than with
the reasoner's suggestion of guilt. Once adopting the more charitable
interpretation, we shall find no difficulty in comprehending the rose
in the key-hole; the 'Marie' upon the slate; the 'elbowing the male
relatives out of the way;' the 'aversion to permitting them to see
the body;' the caution given to Madame B----, that she must hold no
conversation with the gendarme until his return (Beauvais'); and,
lastly, his apparent determination 'that nobody should have anything to
do with the proceedings except himself.' It seems to me unquestionable
that Beauvais was a suitor of Marie's; that she coquetted with him; and
that he was ambitious of being thought to enjoy her fullest intimacy
and confidence. I shall say nothing more upon this point; and, as the
evidence fully rebuts the assertion of L'Etoile, touching the matter
of apathy on the part of the mother and other relatives--an apathy
inconsistent with the supposition of their believing the corpse to be
that of the perfumery-girl--we shall now proceed as if the question of
identity were settled to our perfect satisfaction."

"And what," I here demanded, "do you think of the opinions of Le
Commerciel?"

"That, in spirit, they are far more worthy of attention than any which
have been promulgated upon the subject. The deductions from the premises
are philosophical and acute; but the premises, in two instances, at
least, are founded in imperfect observation. Le Commerciel wishes to
intimate that Marie was seized by some gang of low ruffians not far from
her mother's door. 'It is impossible,' it urges, 'that a person so well
known to thousands as this young woman was, should have passed three
blocks without some one having seen her.' This is the idea of a man long
resident in Paris--a public man--and one whose walks to and fro in the
city, have been mostly limited to the vicinity of the public offices.
He is aware that he seldom passes so far as a dozen blocks from his own
bureau, without being recognized and accosted. And, knowing the extent
of his personal acquaintance with others, and of others with him, he
compares his notoriety with that of the perfumery-girl, finds no great
difference between them, and reaches at once the conclusion that she, in
her walks, would be equally liable to recognition with himself in
his. This could only be the case were her walks of the same unvarying,
methodical character, and within the same species of limited region
as are his own. He passes to and fro, at regular intervals, within a
confined periphery, abounding in individuals who are led to observation
of his person through interest in the kindred nature of his occupation
with their own. But the walks of Marie may, in general, be supposed
discursive. In this particular instance, it will be understood as most
probable, that she proceeded upon a route of more than average diversity
from her accustomed ones. The parallel which we imagine to have existed
in the mind of Le Commerciel would only be sustained in the event of the
two individuals' traversing the whole city. In this case, granting the
personal acquaintances to be equal, the chances would be also equal that
an equal number of personal rencounters would be made. For my own
part, I should hold it not only as possible, but as very far more than
probable, that Marie might have proceeded, at any given period, by any
one of the many routes between her own residence and that of her aunt,
without meeting a single individual whom she knew, or by whom she was
known. In viewing this question in its full and proper light, we must
hold steadily in mind the great disproportion between the personal
acquaintances of even the most noted individual in Paris, and the entire
population of Paris itself.

"But whatever force there may still appear to be in the suggestion of Le
Commerciel, will be much diminished when we take into consideration the
hour at which the girl went abroad. 'It was when the streets were full
of people,' says Le Commerciel, 'that she went out.' But not so. It was
at nine o'clock in the morning. Now at nine o'clock of every morning in
the week, _with the exception of Sunday_, the streets of the city are,
it is true, thronged with people. At nine on Sunday, the populace are
chiefly within doors _preparing for church_. No observing person can
have failed to notice the peculiarly deserted air of the town, from
about eight until ten on the morning of every Sabbath. Between ten and
eleven the streets are thronged, but not at so early a period as that
designated.

"There is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation
on the part of Le Commerciel. 'A piece,' it says, 'of one of the
unfortunate girl's petticoats, two feet long, and one foot wide, was
torn out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head,
probably to prevent screams. This was done, by fellows who had no
pocket-handkerchiefs.' Whether this idea is, or is not well founded,
we will endeavor to see hereafter; but by 'fellows who have no
pocket-handkerchiefs' the editor intends the lowest class of ruffians.
These, however, are the very description of people who will always be
found to have handkerchiefs even when destitute of shirts. You must have
had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to
the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket-handkerchief."

"And what are we to think," I asked, "of the article in Le Soleil?"

"That it is a vast pity its inditer was not born a parrot--in which
case he would have been the most illustrious parrot of his race. He has
merely repeated the individual items of the already published opinion;
collecting them, with a laudable industry, from this paper and from
that. 'The things had all evidently been there,' he says,'at least,
three or four weeks, and there can be _no doubt_ that the spot of this
appalling outrage has been discovered.' The facts here re-stated by
Le Soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this
subject, and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in
connexion with another division of the theme.

"At present we must occupy ourselves with other investigations. You
cannot fail to have remarked the extreme laxity of the examination of
the corpse. To be sure, the question of identity was readily determined,
or should have been; but there were other points to be ascertained. Had
the body been in any respect despoiled? Had the deceased any articles
of jewelry about her person upon leaving home? if so, had she any when
found? These are important questions utterly untouched by the evidence;
and there are others of equal moment, which have met with no attention.
We must endeavor to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry. The case of
St. Eustache must be re-examined. I have no suspicion of this person;
but let us proceed methodically. We will ascertain beyond a doubt the
validity of the affidavits in regard to his whereabouts on the Sunday.
Affidavits of this character are readily made matter of mystification.
Should there be nothing wrong here, however, we will dismiss St.
Eustache from our investigations. His suicide, however corroborative of
suspicion, were there found to be deceit in the affidavits, is, without
such deceit, in no respect an unaccountable circumstance, or one which
need cause us to deflect from the line of ordinary analysis.

"In that which I now propose, we will discard the interior points of
this tragedy, and concentrate our attention upon its outskirts. Not the
least usual error, in investigations such as this, is the limiting of
inquiry to the immediate, with total disregard of the collateral or
circumstantial events. It is the mal-practice of the courts to confine
evidence and discussion to the bounds of apparent relevancy. Yet
experience has shown, and a true philosophy will always show, that a
vast, perhaps the larger portion of truth, arises from the seemingly
irrelevant. It is through the spirit of this principle, if not precisely
through its letter, that modern science has resolved to calculate upon
the unforeseen. But perhaps you do not comprehend me. The history of
human knowledge has so uninterruptedly shown that to collateral, or
incidental, or accidental events we are indebted for the most numerous
and most valuable discoveries, that it has at length become necessary,
in any prospective view of improvement, to make not only large, but the
largest allowances for inventions that shall arise by chance, and quite
out of the range of ordinary expectation. It is no longer philosophical
to base, upon what has been, a vision of what is to be. Accident is
admitted as a portion of the substructure. We make chance a matter of
absolute calculation. We subject the unlooked for and unimagined, to the
mathematical _formulae_ of the schools.

"I repeat that it is no more than fact, that the larger portion of all
truth has sprung from the collateral; and it is but in accordance with
the spirit of the principle involved in this fact, that I would divert
inquiry, in the present case, from the trodden and hitherto unfruitful
ground of the event itself, to the contemporary circumstances which
surround it. While you ascertain the validity of the affidavits, I will
examine the newspapers more generally than you have as yet done. So far,
we have only reconnoitred the field of investigation; but it will be
strange indeed if a comprehensive survey, such as I propose, of the
public prints, will not afford us some minute points which shall
establish a direction for inquiry."

In pursuance of Dupin's suggestion, I made scrupulous examination of
the affair of the affidavits. The result was a firm conviction of their
validity, and of the consequent innocence of St. Eustache. In the mean
time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness
altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files. At
the end of a week he placed before me the following extracts:

"About three years and a half ago, a disturbance very similar to the
present, was caused by the disappearance of this same Marie Rogêt, from
the parfumerie of Monsieur Le Blanc, in the Palais Royal. At the end of
a week, however, she re-appeared at her customary comptoir, as well as
ever, with the exception of a slight paleness not altogether usual. It
was given out by Monsieur Le Blanc and her mother, that she had merely
been on a visit to some friend in the country; and the affair was
speedily hushed up. We presume that the present absence is a freak of
the same nature, and that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of
a month, we shall have her among us again."--Evening Paper--Monday June
23. (*17)

"An evening journal of yesterday, refers to a former mysterious
disappearance of Mademoiselle Rogêt. It is well known that, during the
week of her absence from Le Blanc's parfumerie, she was in the company
of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries. A quarrel, it
is supposed, providentially led to her return home. We have the name of
the Lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in Paris, but,
for obvious reasons, forbear to make it public."--Le Mercurie--Tuesday
Morning, June 24. (*18)

"An outrage of the most atrocious character was perpetrated near this
city the day before yesterday. A gentleman, with his wife and daughter,
engaged, about dusk, the services of six young men, who were idly rowing
a boat to and fro near the banks of the Seine, to convey him across the
river. Upon reaching the opposite shore, the three passengers stepped
out, and had proceeded so far as to be beyond the view of the boat,
when the daughter discovered that she had left in it her parasol. She
returned for it, was seized by the gang, carried out into the stream,
gagged, brutally treated, and finally taken to the shore at a point
not far from that at which she had originally entered the boat with her
parents. The villains have escaped for the time, but the police are upon
their trail, and some of them will soon be taken."--Morning Paper--June
25. (*19)

"We have received one or two communications, the object of which is to
fasten the crime of the late atrocity upon Mennais; (*20) but as this
gentleman has been fully exonerated by a loyal inquiry, and as the
arguments of our several correspondents appear to be more zealous than
profound, we do not think it advisable to make them public."--Morning
Paper--June 28. (*21)

"We have received several forcibly written communications, apparently
from various sources, and which go far to render it a matter of
certainty that the unfortunate Marie Rogêt has become a victim of one of
the numerous bands of blackguards which infest the vicinity of the city
upon Sunday. Our own opinion is decidedly in favor of this
supposition. We shall endeavor to make room for some of these arguments
hereafter."--Evening Paper--Tuesday, June 31. (*22)

"On Monday, one of the bargemen connected with the revenue service, saw
a empty boat floating down the Seine. Sails were lying in the bottom of
the boat. The bargeman towed it under the barge office. The next morning
it was taken from thence, without the knowledge of any of the officers.
The rudder is now at the barge office."--Le Diligence--Thursday, June
26.

Upon reading these various extracts, they not only seemed to me
irrelevant, but I could perceive no mode in which any one of them
could be brought to bear upon the matter in hand. I waited for some
explanation from Dupin.

"It is not my present design," he said, "to dwell upon the first and
second of those extracts. I have copied them chiefly to show you the
extreme remissness of the police, who, as far as I can understand from
the Prefect, have not troubled themselves, in any respect, with an
examination of the naval officer alluded to. Yet it is mere folly to say
that between the first and second disappearance of Marie, there is
no _supposable_ connection. Let us admit the first elopement to have
resulted in a quarrel between the lovers, and the return home of the
betrayed. We are now prepared to view a second elopement (if we know
that an elopement has again taken place) as indicating a renewal of the
betrayer's advances, rather than as the result of new proposals by a
second individual--we are prepared to regard it as a 'making up' of the
old amour, rather than as the commencement of a new one. The chances are
ten to one, that he who had once eloped with Marie, would again propose
an elopement, rather than that she to whom proposals of elopement had
been made by one individual, should have them made to her by another.
And here let me call your attention to the fact, that the time elapsing
between the first ascertained, and the second supposed elopement, is
a few months more than the general period of the cruises of our
men-of-war. Had the lover been interrupted in his first villany by the
necessity of departure to sea, and had he seized the first moment of his
return to renew the base designs not yet altogether accomplished--or
not yet altogether accomplished by _him?_ Of all these things we know
nothing.

"You will say, however, that, in the second instance, there was no
elopement as imagined. Certainly not--but are we prepared to say that
there was not the frustrated design? Beyond St. Eustache, and perhaps
Beauvais, we find no recognized, no open, no honorable suitors of Marie.
Of none other is there any thing said. Who, then, is the secret lover,
of whom the relatives (at least most of them) know nothing, but whom
Marie meets upon the morning of Sunday, and who is so deeply in her
confidence, that she hesitates not to remain with him until the shades
of the evening descend, amid the solitary groves of the Barrière du
Roule? Who is that secret lover, I ask, of whom, at least, most of the
relatives know nothing? And what means the singular prophecy of Madame
Rogêt on the morning of Marie's departure?--'I fear that I shall never
see Marie again.'

"But if we cannot imagine Madame Rogêt privy to the design of elopement,
may we not at least suppose this design entertained by the girl? Upon
quitting home, she gave it to be understood that she was about to visit
her aunt in the Rue des Drômes and St. Eustache was requested to call
for her at dark. Now, at first glance, this fact strongly militates
against my suggestion;--but let us reflect. That she did meet some
companion, and proceed with him across the river, reaching the Barrière
du Roule at so late an hour as three o'clock in the afternoon, is
known. But in consenting so to accompany this individual, (_for whatever
purpose--to her mother known or unknown,_) she must have thought of her
expressed intention when leaving home, and of the surprise and suspicion
aroused in the bosom of her affianced suitor, St. Eustache, when,
calling for her, at the hour appointed, in the Rue des Drômes, he should
find that she had not been there, and when, moreover, upon returning to
the pension with this alarming intelligence, he should become aware of
her continued absence from home. She must have thought of these things,
I say. She must have foreseen the chagrin of St. Eustache, the suspicion
of all. She could not have thought of returning to brave this suspicion;
but the suspicion becomes a point of trivial importance to her, if we
suppose her not intending to return.

"We may imagine her thinking thus--'I am to meet a certain person for
the purpose of elopement, or for certain other purposes known only to
myself. It is necessary that there be no chance of interruption--there
must be sufficient time given us to elude pursuit--I will give it to be
understood that I shall visit and spend the day with my aunt at the Rue
des Drômes--I well tell St. Eustache not to call for me until dark--in
this way, my absence from home for the longest possible period, without
causing suspicion or anxiety, will be accounted for, and I shall gain
more time than in any other manner. If I bid St. Eustache call for me
at dark, he will be sure not to call before; but, if I wholly neglect
to bid him call, my time for escape will be diminished, since it will
be expected that I return the earlier, and my absence will the sooner
excite anxiety. Now, if it were my design to return at all--if I had in
contemplation merely a stroll with the individual in question--it would
not be my policy to bid St. Eustache call; for, calling, he will be sure
to ascertain that I have played him false--a fact of which I might keep
him for ever in ignorance, by leaving home without notifying him of my
intention, by returning before dark, and by then stating that I had been
to visit my aunt in the Rue des Drômes. But, as it is my design never
to return--or not for some weeks--or not until certain concealments are
effected--the gaining of time is the only point about which I need give
myself any concern.'

"You have observed, in your notes, that the most general opinion in
relation to this sad affair is, and was from the first, that the girl
had been the victim of a gang of blackguards. Now, the popular opinion,
under certain conditions, is not to be disregarded. When arising of
itself--when manifesting itself in a strictly spontaneous manner--we
should look upon it as analogous with that _intuition_ which is the
idiosyncrasy of the individual man of genius. In ninety-nine cases from
the hundred I would abide by its decision. But it is important that we
find no palpable traces of _suggestion_. The opinion must be rigorously
_the public's own_; and the distinction is often exceedingly difficult
to perceive and to maintain. In the present instance, it appears to me
that this 'public opinion' in respect to a gang, has been superinduced
by the collateral event which is detailed in the third of my extracts.
All Paris is excited by the discovered corpse of Marie, a girl young,
beautiful and notorious. This corpse is found, bearing marks of
violence, and floating in the river. But it is now made known that, at
the very period, or about the very period, in which it is supposed that
the girl was assassinated, an outrage similar in nature to that endured
by the deceased, although less in extent, was perpetuated, by a gang
of young ruffians, upon the person of a second young female. Is it
wonderful that the one known atrocity should influence the popular
judgment in regard to the other unknown? This judgment awaited
direction, and the known outrage seemed so opportunely to afford it!
Marie, too, was found in the river; and upon this very river was this
known outrage committed. The connexion of the two events had about it so
much of the palpable, that the true wonder would have been a failure
of the populace to appreciate and to seize it. But, in fact, the one
atrocity, known to be so committed, is, if any thing, evidence that the
other, committed at a time nearly coincident, was not so committed.
It would have been a miracle indeed, if, while a gang of ruffians were
perpetrating, at a given locality, a most unheard-of wrong, there should
have been another similar gang, in a similar locality, in the same
city, under the same circumstances, with the same means and appliances,
engaged in a wrong of precisely the same aspect, at precisely the
same period of time! Yet in what, if not in this marvellous train of
coincidence, does the accidentally suggested opinion of the populace
call upon us to believe?

"Before proceeding farther, let us consider the supposed scene of the
assassination, in the thicket at the Barrière du Roule. This thicket,
although dense, was in the close vicinity of a public road. Within
were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat with a back and
footstool. On the upper stone was discovered a white petticoat; on the
second, a silk scarf. A parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief,
were also here found. The handkerchief bore the name, 'Marie Rogêt.'
Fragments of dress were seen on the branches around. The earth was
trampled, the bushes were broken, and there was every evidence of a
violent struggle.

"Notwithstanding the acclamation with which the discovery of this
thicket was received by the press, and the unanimity with which it
was supposed to indicate the precise scene of the outrage, it must be
admitted that there was some very good reason for doubt. That it was the
scene, I may or I may not believe--but there was excellent reason for
doubt. Had the true scene been, as Le Commerciel suggested, in the
neighborhood of the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, the perpetrators of the
crime, supposing them still resident in Paris, would naturally have been
stricken with terror at the public attention thus acutely directed into
the proper channel; and, in certain classes of minds, there would have
arisen, at once, a sense of the necessity of some exertion to redivert
this attention. And thus, the thicket of the Barrière du Roule having
been already suspected, the idea of placing the articles where they were
found, might have been naturally entertained. There is no real evidence,
although Le Soleil so supposes, that the articles discovered had
been more than a very few days in the thicket; while there is much
circumstantial proof that they could not have remained there, without
attracting attention, during the twenty days elapsing between the fatal
Sunday and the afternoon upon which they were found by the boys. 'They
were all _mildewed_ down hard,' says Le Soleil, adopting the opinions of
its predecessors, 'with the action of the rain, and stuck together from
_mildew_. The grass had grown around and over some of them. The silk of
the parasol was strong, but the threads of it were run together within.
The upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was all _mildewed_
and rotten, and tore on being opened.' In respect to the grass having
'grown around and over some of them,' it is obvious that the fact
could only have been ascertained from the words, and thus from the
recollections, of two small boys; for these boys removed the articles
and took them home before they had been seen by a third party. But grass
will grow, especially in warm and damp weather, (such as was that of the
period of the murder,) as much as two or three inches in a single day.
A parasol lying upon a newly turfed ground, might, in a single week,
be entirely concealed from sight by the upspringing grass. And touching
that mildew upon which the editor of Le Soleil so pertinaciously
insists, that he employs the word no less than three times in the
brief paragraph just quoted, is he really unaware of the nature of this
mildew? Is he to be told that it is one of the many classes of fungus,
of which the most ordinary feature is its upspringing and decadence
within twenty-four hours?

"Thus we see, at a glance, that what has been most triumphantly adduced
in support of the idea that the articles had been 'for at least three
or four weeks' in the thicket, is most absurdly null as regards any
evidence of that fact. On the other hand, it is exceedingly difficult
to believe that these articles could have remained in the thicket
specified, for a longer period than a single week--for a longer period
than from one Sunday to the next. Those who know any thing of the
vicinity of Paris, know the extreme difficulty of finding seclusion
unless at a great distance from its suburbs. Such a thing as an
unexplored, or even an unfrequently visited recess, amid its woods or
groves, is not for a moment to be imagined. Let any one who, being at
heart a lover of nature, is yet chained by duty to the dust and heat
of this great metropolis--let any such one attempt, even during the
weekdays, to slake his thirst for solitude amid the scenes of natural
loveliness which immediately surround us. At every second step, he will
find the growing charm dispelled by the voice and personal intrusion
of some ruffian or party of carousing blackguards. He will seek privacy
amid the densest foliage, all in vain. Here are the very nooks where the
unwashed most abound--here are the temples most desecrate. With sickness
of the heart the wanderer will flee back to the polluted Paris as to
a less odious because less incongruous sink of pollution. But if the
vicinity of the city is so beset during the working days of the week,
how much more so on the Sabbath! It is now especially that, released
from the claims of labor, or deprived of the customary opportunities of
crime, the town blackguard seeks the precincts of the town, not through
love of the rural, which in his heart he despises, but by way of escape
from the restraints and conventionalities of society. He desires
less the fresh air and the green trees, than the utter license of the
country. Here, at the road-side inn, or beneath the foliage of the
woods, he indulges, unchecked by any eye except those of his boon
companions, in all the mad excess of a counterfeit hilarity--the joint
offspring of liberty and of rum. I say nothing more than what must
be obvious to every dispassionate observer, when I repeat that the
circumstance of the articles in question having remained undiscovered,
for a longer period--than from one Sunday to another, in any thicket in
the immediate neighborhood of Paris, is to be looked upon as little less
than miraculous.

"But there are not wanting other grounds for the suspicion that the
articles were placed in the thicket with the view of diverting attention
from the real scene of the outrage. And, first, let me direct your
notice to the date of the discovery of the articles. Collate this with
the date of the fifth extract made by myself from the newspapers. You
will find that the discovery followed, almost immediately, the urgent
communications sent to the evening paper. These communications, although
various and apparently from various sources, tended all to the same
point--viz., the directing of attention to a gang as the perpetrators
of the outrage, and to the neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule as its
scene. Now here, of course, the suspicion is not that, in consequence of
these communications, or of the public attention by them directed, the
articles were found by the boys; but the suspicion might and may well
have been, that the articles were not before found by the boys, for the
reason that the articles had not before been in the thicket; having
been deposited there only at so late a period as at the date, or shortly
prior to the date of the communications by the guilty authors of these
communications themselves.

"This thicket was a singular--an exceedingly singular one. It was
unusually dense. Within its naturally walled enclosure were three
extraordinary stones, forming a seat with a back and footstool. And this
thicket, so full of a natural art, was in the immediate vicinity, within
a few rods, of the dwelling of Madame Deluc, whose boys were in the
habit of closely examining the shrubberies about them in search of
the bark of the sassafras. Would it be a rash wager--a wager of one
thousand to one--that a day never passed over the heads of these boys
without finding at least one of them ensconced in the umbrageous hall,
and enthroned upon its natural throne? Those who would hesitate at such
a wager, have either never been boys themselves, or have forgotten the
boyish nature. I repeat--it is exceedingly hard to comprehend how the
articles could have remained in this thicket undiscovered, for a longer
period than one or two days; and that thus there is good ground for
suspicion, in spite of the dogmatic ignorance of Le Soleil, that they
were, at a comparatively late date, deposited where found.

"But there are still other and stronger reasons for believing them so
deposited, than any which I have as yet urged. And, now, let me beg
your notice to the highly artificial arrangement of the articles. On the
upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf; scattered
around, were a parasol, gloves, and a pocket-handkerchief bearing the
name, 'Marie Rogêt.' Here is just such an arrangement as would naturally
be made by a not over-acute person wishing to dispose the articles
naturally. But it is by no means a really natural arrangement. I
should rather have looked to see the things all lying on the ground and
trampled under foot. In the narrow limits of that bower, it would have
been scarcely possible that the petticoat and scarf should have retained
a position upon the stones, when subjected to the brushing to and fro
of many struggling persons. 'There was evidence,' it is said, 'of a
struggle; and the earth was trampled, the bushes were broken,'--but the
petticoat and the scarf are found deposited as if upon shelves. 'The
pieces of the frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide
and six inches long. One part was the hem of the frock and it had been
mended. They looked like strips torn off.' Here, inadvertently, Le
Soleil has employed an exceedingly suspicious phrase. The pieces, as
described, do indeed 'look like strips torn off;' but purposely and by
hand. It is one of the rarest of accidents that a piece is 'torn off,'
from any garment such as is now in question, by the agency of a thorn.
From the very nature of such fabrics, a thorn or nail becoming entangled
in them, tears them rectangularly--divides them into two longitudinal
rents, at right angles with each other, and meeting at an apex where the
thorn enters--but it is scarcely possible to conceive the piece 'torn
off.' I never so knew it, nor did you. To tear a piece off from such
fabric, two distinct forces, in different directions, will be, in almost
every case, required. If there be two edges to the fabric--if, for
example, it be a pocket-handkerchief, and it is desired to tear from it
a slip, then, and then only, will the one force serve the purpose. But
in the present case the question is of a dress, presenting but one edge.
To tear a piece from the interior, where no edge is presented, could
only be effected by a miracle through the agency of thorns, and no one
thorn could accomplish it. But, even where an edge is presented, two
thorns will be necessary, operating, the one in two distinct directions,
and the other in one. And this in the supposition that the edge is
unhemmed. If hemmed, the matter is nearly out of the question. We thus
see the numerous and great obstacles in the way of pieces being 'torn
off' through the simple agency of 'thorns;' yet we are required to
believe not only that one piece but that many have been so torn. 'And
one part,' too, 'was the hem of the frock!' Another piece was 'part
of the skirt, not the hem,'--that is to say, was torn completely out
through the agency of thorns, from the uncaged interior of the
dress! These, I say, are things which one may well be pardoned for
disbelieving; yet, taken collectedly, they form, perhaps, less of
reasonable ground for suspicion, than the one startling circumstance of
the articles' having been left in this thicket at all, by any murderers
who had enough precaution to think of removing the corpse. You will not
have apprehended me rightly, however, if you suppose it my design to
deny this thicket as the scene of the outrage. There might have been a
wrong here, or, more possibly, an accident at Madame Deluc's. But, in
fact, this is a point of minor importance. We are not engaged in an
attempt to discover the scene, but to produce the perpetrators of the
murder. What I have adduced, notwithstanding the minuteness with which I
have adduced it, has been with the view, first, to show the folly of the
positive and headlong assertions of Le Soleil, but secondly and chiefly,
to bring you, by the most natural route, to a further contemplation of
the doubt whether this assassination has, or has not been, the work of a
gang.

"We will resume this question by mere allusion to the revolting details
of the surgeon examined at the inquest. It is only necessary to say that
his published inferences, in regard to the number of ruffians, have been
properly ridiculed as unjust and totally baseless, by all the reputable
anatomists of Paris. Not that the matter might not have been as
inferred, but that there was no ground for the inference:--was there not
much for another?

"Let us reflect now upon 'the traces of a struggle;' and let me ask what
these traces have been supposed to demonstrate. A gang. But do they not
rather demonstrate the absence of a gang? What struggle could have taken
place--what struggle so violent and so enduring as to have left its
'traces' in all directions--between a weak and defenceless girl and the
gang of ruffians imagined? The silent grasp of a few rough arms and all
would have been over. The victim must have been absolutely passive at
their will. You will here bear in mind that the arguments urged against
the thicket as the scene, are applicable in chief part, only against it
as the scene of an outrage committed by more than a single individual.
If we imagine but one violator, we can conceive, and thus only conceive,
the struggle of so violent and so obstinate a nature as to have left the
'traces' apparent.

"And again. I have already mentioned the suspicion to be excited by the
fact that the articles in question were suffered to remain at all in
the thicket where discovered. It seems almost impossible that these
evidences of guilt should have been accidentally left where found. There
was sufficient presence of mind (it is supposed) to remove the corpse;
and yet a more positive evidence than the corpse itself (whose features
might have been quickly obliterated by decay,) is allowed to lie
conspicuously in the scene of the outrage--I allude to the handkerchief
with the name of the deceased. If this was accident, it was not
the accident of a gang. We can imagine it only the accident of an
individual. Let us see. An individual has committed the murder. He
is alone with the ghost of the departed. He is appalled by what lies
motionless before him. The fury of his passion is over, and there is
abundant room in his heart for the natural awe of the deed. His is none
of that confidence which the presence of numbers inevitably inspires.
He is alone with the dead. He trembles and is bewildered. Yet there is
a necessity for disposing of the corpse. He bears it to the river, but
leaves behind him the other evidences of guilt; for it is difficult, if
not impossible to carry all the burthen at once, and it will be easy to
return for what is left. But in his toilsome journey to the water his
fears redouble within him. The sounds of life encompass his path. A
dozen times he hears or fancies the step of an observer. Even the very
lights from the city bewilder him. Yet, in time and by long and frequent
pauses of deep agony, he reaches the river's brink, and disposes of
his ghastly charge--perhaps through the medium of a boat. But now what
treasure does the world hold--what threat of vengeance could it hold
out--which would have power to urge the return of that lonely murderer
over that toilsome and perilous path, to the thicket and its blood
chilling recollections? He returns not, let the consequences be what
they may. He could not return if he would. His sole thought is immediate
escape. He turns his back forever upon those dreadful shrubberies and
flees as from the wrath to come.

"But how with a gang? Their number would have inspired them with
confidence; if, indeed confidence is ever wanting in the breast of the
arrant blackguard; and of arrant blackguards alone are the supposed
gangs ever constituted. Their number, I say, would have prevented the
bewildering and unreasoning terror which I have imagined to paralyze the
single man. Could we suppose an oversight in one, or two, or three, this
oversight would have been remedied by a fourth. They would have left
nothing behind them; for their number would have enabled them to carry
all at once. There would have been no need of return.

"Consider now the circumstance that in the outer garment of the corpse
when found, 'a slip, about a foot wide had been torn upward from the
bottom hem to the waist wound three times round the waist, and secured
by a sort of hitch in the back.' This was done with the obvious design
of affording a handle by which to carry the body. But would any number
of men have dreamed of resorting to such an expedient? To three or four,
the limbs of the corpse would have afforded not only a sufficient, but
the best possible hold. The device is that of a single individual; and
this brings us to the fact that 'between the thicket and the river, the
rails of the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evident
traces of some heavy burden having been dragged along it!' But would a
number of men have put themselves to the superfluous trouble of taking
down a fence, for the purpose of dragging through it a corpse which they
might have lifted over any fence in an instant? Would a number of men
have so dragged a corpse at all as to have left evident traces of the
dragging?

"And here we must refer to an observation of Le Commerciel; an
observation upon which I have already, in some measure, commented. 'A
piece,' says this journal, 'of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats
was torn out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her
head, probably to prevent screams. This was done by fellows who had no
pocket-handkerchiefs.'

"I have before suggested that a genuine blackguard is never without a
pocket-handkerchief. But it is not to this fact that I now especially
advert. That it was not through want of a handkerchief for the purpose
imagined by Le Commerciel, that this bandage was employed, is rendered
apparent by the handkerchief left in the thicket; and that the object
was not 'to prevent screams' appears, also, from the bandage having been
employed in preference to what would so much better have answered
the purpose. But the language of the evidence speaks of the strip in
question as 'found around the neck, fitting loosely, and secured with
a hard knot.' These words are sufficiently vague, but differ materially
from those of Le Commerciel. The slip was eighteen inches wide, and
therefore, although of muslin, would form a strong band when folded or
rumpled longitudinally. And thus rumpled it was discovered. My inference
is this. The solitary murderer, having borne the corpse, for some
distance, (whether from the thicket or elsewhere) by means of the
bandage hitched around its middle, found the weight, in this mode
of procedure, too much for his strength. He resolved to drag the
burthen--the evidence goes to show that it was dragged. With this object
in view, it became necessary to attach something like a rope to one of
the extremities. It could be best attached about the neck, where the
head would prevent its slipping off. And, now, the murderer bethought
him, unquestionably, of the bandage about the loins. He would have used
this, but for its volution about the corpse, the hitch which embarrassed
it, and the reflection that it had not been 'torn off' from the garment.
It was easier to tear a new slip from the petticoat. He tore it, made
it fast about the neck, and so dragged his victim to the brink of the
river. That this 'bandage,' only attainable with trouble and delay, and
but imperfectly answering its purpose--that this bandage was employed
at all, demonstrates that the necessity for its employment sprang from
circumstances arising at a period when the handkerchief was no longer
attainable--that is to say, arising, as we have imagined, after quitting
the thicket, (if the thicket it was), and on the road between the
thicket and the river.

"But the evidence, you will say, of Madame Deluc, (!) points especially
to the presence of a gang, in the vicinity of the thicket, at or about
the epoch of the murder. This I grant. I doubt if there were not a dozen
gangs, such as described by Madame Deluc, in and about the vicinity of
the Barrière du Roule at or about the period of this tragedy. But the
gang which has drawn upon itself the pointed animadversion, although the
somewhat tardy and very suspicious evidence of Madame Deluc, is the
only gang which is represented by that honest and scrupulous old lady
as having eaten her cakes and swallowed her brandy, without putting
themselves to the trouble of making her payment. Et hinc illæ iræ?

"But what is the precise evidence of Madame Deluc? 'A gang of miscreants
made their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without
making payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl,
returned to the inn about dusk, and recrossed the river as if in great
haste.'

"Now this 'great haste' very possibly seemed greater haste in the eyes
of Madame Deluc, since she dwelt lingeringly and lamentingly upon her
violated cakes and ale--cakes and ale for which she might still have
entertained a faint hope of compensation. Why, otherwise, since it was
about dusk, should she make a point of the haste? It is no cause for
wonder, surely, that even a gang of blackguards should make haste to
get home, when a wide river is to be crossed in small boats, when storm
impends, and when night approaches.

"I say approaches; for the night had not yet arrived. It was only about
dusk that the indecent haste of these 'miscreants' offended the sober
eyes of Madame Deluc. But we are told that it was upon this very evening
that Madame Deluc, as well as her eldest son, 'heard the screams of a
female in the vicinity of the inn.' And in what words does Madame Deluc
designate the period of the evening at which these screams were heard?
'It was soon after dark,' she says. But 'soon after dark,' is, at least,
dark; and 'about dusk' is as certainly daylight. Thus it is abundantly
clear that the gang quitted the Barrière du Roule prior to the screams
overheard (?) by Madame Deluc. And although, in all the many reports of
the evidence, the relative expressions in question are distinctly and
invariably employed just as I have employed them in this conversation
with yourself, no notice whatever of the gross discrepancy has, as yet,
been taken by any of the public journals, or by any of the Myrmidons of
police.

"I shall add but one to the arguments against a gang; but this one has,
to my own understanding at least, a weight altogether irresistible.
Under the circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to
any King's evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some
member of a gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long
ago have betrayed his accomplices. Each one of a gang so placed, is not
so much greedy of reward, or anxious for escape, as fearful of betrayal.
He betrays eagerly and early that he may not himself be betrayed. That
the secret has not been divulged, is the very best of proof that it is,
in fact, a secret. The horrors of this dark deed are known only to one,
or two, living human beings, and to God.

"Let us sum up now the meagre yet certain fruits of our long analysis.
We have attained the idea either of a fatal accident under the roof of
Madame Deluc, or of a murder perpetrated, in the thicket at the Barrière
du Roule, by a lover, or at least by an intimate and secret associate of
the deceased. This associate is of swarthy complexion. This complexion,
the 'hitch' in the bandage, and the 'sailor's knot,' with which the
bonnet-ribbon is tied, point to a seaman. His companionship with the
deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as
above the grade of the common sailor. Here the well written and urgent
communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration. The
circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by Le Mercurie, tends
to blend the idea of this seaman with that of the 'naval officer' who is
first known to have led the unfortunate into crime.

"And here, most fitly, comes the consideration of the continued
absence of him of the dark complexion. Let me pause to observe that the
complexion of this man is dark and swarthy; it was no common swarthiness
which constituted the sole point of remembrance, both as regards Valence
and Madame Deluc. But why is this man absent? Was he murdered by the
gang? If so, why are there only traces of the assassinated girl? The
scene of the two outrages will naturally be supposed identical. And
where is his corpse? The assassins would most probably have disposed
of both in the same way. But it may be said that this man lives, and is
deterred from making himself known, through dread of being charged with
the murder. This consideration might be supposed to operate upon him
now--at this late period--since it has been given in evidence that he
was seen with Marie--but it would have had no force at the period of the
deed. The first impulse of an innocent man would have been to announce
the outrage, and to aid in identifying the ruffians. This policy would
have suggested. He had been seen with the girl. He had crossed the river
with her in an open ferry-boat. The denouncing of the assassins would
have appeared, even to an idiot, the surest and sole means of relieving
himself from suspicion. We cannot suppose him, on the night of the fatal
Sunday, both innocent himself and incognizant of an outrage committed.
Yet only under such circumstances is it possible to imagine that he
would have failed, if alive, in the denouncement of the assassins.

"And what means are ours, of attaining the truth? We shall find these
means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed. Let us sift
to the bottom this affair of the first elopement. Let us know the
full history of 'the officer,' with his present circumstances, and
his whereabouts at the precise period of the murder. Let us carefully
compare with each other the various communications sent to the evening
paper, in which the object was to inculpate a gang. This done, let us
compare these communications, both as regards style and MS., with
those sent to the morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so
vehemently upon the guilt of Mennais. And, all this done, let us again
compare these various communications with the known MSS. of the officer.
Let us endeavor to ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc
and her boys, as well as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more
of the personal appearance and bearing of the 'man of dark complexion.'
Queries, skilfully directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of
these parties, information on this particular point (or upon
others)--information which the parties themselves may not even be aware
of possessing. And let us now trace the boat picked up by the bargeman
on the morning of Monday the twenty-third of June, and which was
removed from the barge-office, without the cognizance of the officer
in attendance, and without the rudder, at some period prior to the
discovery of the corpse. With a proper caution and perseverance we shall
infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the bargeman who picked
it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand. The rudder of a sail-boat
would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by one altogether at
ease in heart. And here let me pause to insinuate a question. There was
no advertisement of the picking up of this boat. It was silently
taken to the barge-office, and as silently removed. But its owner or
employer--how happened he, at so early a period as Tuesday morning, to
be informed, without the agency of advertisement, of the locality of
the boat taken up on Monday, unless we imagine some connexion with the
navy--some personal permanent connexion leading to cognizance of its
minute in interests--its petty local news?

"In speaking of the lonely assassin dragging his burden to the shore,
I have already suggested the probability of his availing himself of a
boat. Now we are to understand that Marie Rogêt was precipitated from a
boat. This would naturally have been the case. The corpse could not have
been trusted to the shallow waters of the shore. The peculiar marks on
the back and shoulders of the victim tell of the bottom ribs of a boat.
That the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the
idea. If thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached. We can
only account for its absence by supposing the murderer to have neglected
the precaution of supplying himself with it before pushing off. In the
act of consigning the corpse to the water, he would unquestionably have
noticed his oversight; but then no remedy would have been at hand.
Any risk would have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore.
Having rid himself of his ghastly charge, the murderer would have
hastened to the city. There, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped
on land. But the boat--would he have secured it? He would have been
in too great haste for such things as securing a boat. Moreover, in
fastening it to the wharf, he would have felt as if securing evidence
against himself. His natural thought would have been to cast from him,
as far as possible, all that had held connection with his crime. He
would not only have fled from the wharf, but he would not have permitted
the boat to remain. Assuredly he would have cast it adrift. Let us
pursue our fancies.--In the morning, the wretch is stricken with
unutterable horror at finding that the boat has been picked up and
detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit of frequenting
--at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him to frequent. The
next night, without daring to ask for the rudder, he removes it. Now
where is that rudderless boat? Let it be one of our first purposes
to discover. With the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of our
success shall begin. This boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which
will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of
the fatal Sabbath. Corroboration will rise upon corroboration, and the
murderer will be traced."

[For reasons which we shall not specify, but which to many readers will
appear obvious, we have taken the liberty of here omitting, from the
MSS. placed in our hands, such portion as details the following up of
the apparently slight clew obtained by Dupin. We feel it advisable only
to state, in brief, that the result desired was brought to pass; and
that the Prefect fulfilled punctually, although with reluctance, the
terms of his compact with the Chevalier. Mr. Poe's article concludes
with the following words.--Eds. (*23)]

It will be understood that I speak of coincidences and no more. What
I have said above upon this topic must suffice. In my own heart there
dwells no faith in præter-nature. That Nature and its God are two, no
man who thinks, will deny. That the latter, creating the former, can, at
will, control or modify it, is also unquestionable. I say "at will;" for
the question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed,
of power. It is not that the Deity cannot modify his laws, but that we
insult him in imagining a possible necessity for modification. In their
origin these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which
could lie in the Future. With God all is Now.

I repeat, then, that I speak of these things only as of coincidences.
And farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of
the unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the
fate of one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has
existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude
the reason becomes embarrassed. I say all this will be seen. But let it
not for a moment be supposed that, in proceeding with the sad narrative
of Marie from the epoch just mentioned, and in tracing to its dénouement
the mystery which enshrouded her, it is my covert design to hint at an
extension of the parallel, or even to suggest that the measures adopted
in Paris for the discovery of the assassin of a grisette, or measures
founded in any similar ratiocination, would produce any similar result.

For, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be
considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the
two cases might give rise to the most important miscalculations,
by diverting thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as,
in arithmetic, an error which, in its own individuality, may be
inappreciable, produces, at length, by dint of multiplication at all
points of the process, a result enormously at variance with truth. And,
in regard to the former branch, we must not fail to hold in view that
the very Calculus of Probabilities to which I have referred, forbids all
idea of the extension of the parallel:--forbids it with a positiveness
strong and decided just in proportion as this parallel has already been
long-drawn and exact. This is one of those anomalous propositions which,
seemingly appealing to thought altogether apart from the mathematical,
is yet one which only the mathematician can fully entertain. Nothing,
for example, is more difficult than to convince the merely general
reader that the fact of sixes having been thrown twice in succession by
a player at dice, is sufficient cause for betting the largest odds that
sixes will not be thrown in the third attempt. A suggestion to this
effect is usually rejected by the intellect at once. It does not
appear that the two throws which have been completed, and which lie now
absolutely in the Past, can have influence upon the throw which exists
only in the Future. The chance for throwing sixes seems to be precisely
as it was at any ordinary time--that is to say, subject only to the
influence of the various other throws which may be made by the dice. And
this is a reflection which appears so exceedingly obvious that attempts
to controvert it are received more frequently with a derisive smile
than with anything like respectful attention. The error here involved--a
gross error redolent of mischief--I cannot pretend to expose within the
limits assigned me at present; and with the philosophical it needs
no exposure. It may be sufficient here to say that it forms one of an
infinite series of mistakes which arise in the path of Reason through
her propensity for seeking truth in detail.

Footnotes--Marie Rogêt

(*1) Upon the original publication of "Marie Roget," the foot-notes now
appended were considered unnecessary; but the lapse of several years
since the tragedy upon which the tale is based, renders it expedient
to give them, and also to say a few words in explanation of the general
design. A young girl, Mary Cecilia Rogers, was murdered in the
vicinity of New York; and, although her death occasioned an intense and
long-enduring excitement, the mystery attending it had remained
unsolved at the period when the present paper was written and published
(November, 1842). Herein, under pretence of relating the fate of
a Parisian grisette, the author has followed in minute detail, the
essential, while merely paralleling the inessential facts of the real
murder of Mary Rogers. Thus all argument founded upon the fiction is
applicable to the truth: and the investigation of the truth was the
object. The "Mystery of Marie Roget" was composed at a distance from the
scene of the atrocity, and with no other means of investigation than the
newspapers afforded. Thus much escaped the writer of which he could have
availed himself had he been upon the spot, and visited the localities.
It may not be improper to record, nevertheless, that the confessions of
two persons, (one of them the Madame Deluc of the narrative) made, at
different periods, long subsequent to the publication, confirmed, in
full, not only the general conclusion, but absolutely all the chief
hypothetical details by which that conclusion was attained.

(*2) The nom de plume of Von Hardenburg.

(*3) Nassau Street.

(*4) Anderson.

(*5) The Hudson.

(*6) Weehawken.

(*7) Payne.

(*8) Crommelin.

(*9) The New York "Mercury."

(*10) The New York "Brother Jonathan," edited by H. Hastings Weld, Esq.

(*11) New York "Journal of Commerce."

(*12) Philadelphia "Saturday Evening Post," edited by C. I. Peterson,
Esq.

(*13) Adam

(*14) See "Murders in the Rue Morgue."

(*15) The New York "Commercial Advertiser," edited by Col. Stone.

(*16) "A theory based on the qualities of an object, will prevent its
being unfolded according to its objects; and he who arranges topics in
reference to their causes, will cease to value them according to their
results. Thus the jurisprudence of every nation will show that, when law
becomes a science and a system, it ceases to be justice. The errors
into which a blind devotion to principles of classification has led the
common law, will be seen by observing how often the legislature has
been obliged to come forward to restore the equity its scheme had
lost."--Landor.

(*17) New York "Express"

(*18) New York "Herald."

(*19) New York "Courier and Inquirer."

(*20) Mennais was one of the parties originally suspected and arrested,
but discharged through total lack of evidence.

(*21) New York "Courier and Inquirer."

(*22) New York "Evening Post."

(*23) Of the Magazine in which the article was originally published.




THE BALLOON-HOAX

 [Astounding News by Express, _via_ Norfolk!--The Atlantic
 crossed in Three Days!  Signal Triumph of Mr. Monck Mason's Flying
 Machine!--Arrival at Sullivan's Island, near Charlestown, S.C., of
 Mr. Mason, Mr. Robert Holland, Mr. Henson, Mr. Harrison Ainsworth,
 and four others, in the Steering Balloon, "Victoria," after a passage
 of Seventy-five Hours from Land to Land!  Full Particulars of the
 Voyage!

 The subjoined _jeu d'esprit_ with the preceding heading in
 magnificent capitals, well interspersed with notes of admiration, was
 originally published, as matter of fact, in the "New York Sun," a
 daily newspaper, and therein fully subserved the purpose of creating
 indigestible aliment for the _quidnuncs_ during the few hours
 intervening between a couple of the Charleston mails.  The rush for
 the "sole paper which had the news," was something beyond even the
 prodigious;  and, in fact, if (as some assert) the "Victoria" _did_
 not absolutely accomplish the voyage recorded, it will be difficult
 to assign a reason why she _should_ not have accomplished it.]

THE great problem is at length solved! The air, as well as the earth
and the ocean, has been subdued by science, and will become a common and
convenient highway for mankind. _The Atlantic has been actually crossed
in a Balloon!_ and this too without difficulty--without any great
apparent danger--with thorough control of the machine--and in the
inconceivably brief period of seventy-five hours from shore to shore!
By the energy of an agent at Charleston, S.C., we are enabled to be
the first to furnish the public with a detailed account of this most
extraordinary voyage, which was performed between Saturday, the 6th
instant, at 11, A.M., and 2, P.M., on Tuesday, the 9th instant, by Sir
Everard Bringhurst; Mr. Osborne, a nephew of Lord Bentinck's; Mr. Monck
Mason and Mr. Robert Holland, the well-known æronauts; Mr. Harrison
Ainsworth, author of "Jack Sheppard," &c.; and Mr. Henson, the
projector of the late unsuccessful flying machine--with two seamen from
Woolwich--in all, eight persons. The particulars furnished below may be
relied on as authentic and accurate in every respect, as, with a slight
exception, they are copied _verbatim_ from the joint diaries of Mr.
Monck Mason and Mr. Harrison Ainsworth, to whose politeness our agent is
also indebted for much verbal information respecting the balloon itself,
its construction, and other matters of interest. The only alteration in
the MS. received, has been made for the purpose of throwing the hurried
account of our agent, Mr. Forsyth, into a connected and intelligible
form.

"THE BALLOON.

"Two very decided failures, of late--those of Mr. Henson and Sir George
Cayley--had much weakened the public interest in the subject of aerial
navigation. Mr. Henson's scheme (which at first was considered very
feasible even by men of science,) was founded upon the principle of an
inclined plane, started from an eminence by an extrinsic force, applied
and continued by the revolution of impinging vanes, in form and number
resembling the vanes of a windmill. But, in all the experiments made
with models at the Adelaide Gallery, it was found that the operation of
these fans not only did not propel the machine, but actually impeded
its flight. The only propelling force it ever exhibited, was the mere
_impetus_ acquired from the descent of the inclined plane; and this
_impetus_ carried the machine farther when the vanes were at rest, than
when they were in motion--a fact which sufficiently demonstrates their
inutility; and in the absence of the propelling, which was also the
_sustaining_ power, the whole fabric would necessarily descend.
This consideration led Sir George Cayley to think only of adapting
a propeller to some machine having of itself an independent power of
support--in a word, to a balloon; the idea, however, being novel,
or original, with Sir George, only so far as regards the mode of its
application to practice. He exhibited a model of his invention at the
Polytechnic Institution. The propelling principle, or power, was here,
also, applied to interrupted surfaces, or vanes, put in revolution.
These vanes were four in number, but were found entirely ineffectual in
moving the balloon, or in aiding its ascending power. The whole project
was thus a complete failure.

"It was at this juncture that Mr. Monck Mason (whose voyage from Dover
to Weilburg in the balloon, "Nassau," occasioned so much excitement in
1837,) conceived the idea of employing the principle of the Archimedean
screw for the purpose of propulsion through the air--rightly
attributing the failure of Mr. Henson's scheme, and of Sir George
Cayley's, to the interruption of surface in the independent vanes.
He made the first public experiment at Willis's Rooms, but afterward
removed his model to the Adelaide Gallery.

"Like Sir George Cayley's balloon, his own was an ellipsoid. Its
length was thirteen feet six inches--height, six feet eight inches. It
contained about three hundred and twenty cubic feet of gas, which, if
pure hydrogen, would support twenty-one pounds upon its first inflation,
before the gas has time to deteriorate or escape. The weight of the
whole machine and apparatus was seventeen pounds--leaving about four
pounds to spare. Beneath the centre of the balloon, was a frame of light
wood, about nine feet long, and rigged on to the balloon itself with
a network in the customary manner. From this framework was suspended a
wicker basket or car.

"The screw consists of an axis of hollow brass tube, eighteen inches in
length, through which, upon a semi-spiral inclined at fifteen degrees,
pass a series of steel wire radii, two feet long, and thus projecting a
foot on either side. These radii are connected at the outer extremities
by two bands of flattened wire--the whole in this manner forming the
framework of the screw, which is completed by a covering of oiled silk
cut into gores, and tightened so as to present a tolerably uniform
surface. At each end of its axis this screw is supported by pillars of
hollow brass tube descending from the hoop. In the lower ends of these
tubes are holes in which the pivots of the axis revolve. From the end
of the axis which is next the car, proceeds a shaft of steel, connecting
the screw with the pinion of a piece of spring machinery fixed in the
car. By the operation of this spring, the screw is made to revolve with
great rapidity, communicating a progressive motion to the whole. By
means of the rudder, the machine was readily turned in any direction.
The spring was of great power, compared with its dimensions, being
capable of raising forty-five pounds upon a barrel of four inches
diameter, after the first turn, and gradually increasing as it was wound
up. It weighed, altogether, eight pounds six ounces. The rudder was
a light frame of cane covered with silk, shaped somewhat like a
battle-door, and was about three feet long, and at the widest, one foot.
Its weight was about two ounces. It could be turned _flat_, and directed
upwards or downwards, as well as to the right or left; and thus enabled
the æronaut to transfer the resistance of the air which in an inclined
position it must generate in its passage, to any side upon which he
might desire to act; thus determining the balloon in the opposite
direction.

"This model (which, through want of time, we have necessarily described
in an imperfect manner,) was put in action at the Adelaide Gallery,
where it accomplished a velocity of five miles per hour; although,
strange to say, it excited very little interest in comparison with the
previous complex machine of Mr. Henson--so resolute is the world
to despise anything which carries with it an air of simplicity. To
accomplish the great desideratum of ærial navigation, it was very
generally supposed that some exceedingly complicated application must be
made of some unusually profound principle in dynamics.

"So well satisfied, however, was Mr. Mason of the ultimate success of
his invention, that he determined to construct immediately, if possible,
a balloon of sufficient capacity to test the question by a voyage of
some extent--the original design being to cross the British Channel, as
before, in the Nassau balloon. To carry out his views, he solicited and
obtained the patronage of Sir Everard Bringhurst and Mr. Osborne, two
gentlemen well known for scientific acquirement, and especially for the
interest they have exhibited in the progress of ærostation. The project,
at the desire of Mr. Osborne, was kept a profound secret from the
public--the only persons entrusted with the design being those actually
engaged in the construction of the machine, which was built (under the
superintendence of Mr. Mason, Mr. Holland, Sir Everard Bringhurst, and
Mr. Osborne,) at the seat of the latter gentleman near Penstruthal, in
Wales. Mr. Henson, accompanied by his friend Mr. Ainsworth, was admitted
to a private view of the balloon, on Saturday last--when the two
gentlemen made final arrangements to be included in the adventure. We
are not informed for what reason the two seamen were also included in
the party--but, in the course of a day or two, we shall put our readers
in possession of the minutest particulars respecting this extraordinary
voyage.

"The balloon is composed of silk, varnished with the liquid gum
caoutchouc. It is of vast dimensions, containing more than 40,000 cubic
feet of gas; but as coal gas was employed in place of the more expensive
and inconvenient hydrogen, the supporting power of the machine, when
fully inflated, and immediately after inflation, is not more than about
2500 pounds. The coal gas is not only much less costly, but is easily
procured and managed.

"For its introduction into common use for purposes of aerostation, we
are indebted to Mr. Charles Green. Up to his discovery, the process of
inflation was not only exceedingly expensive, but uncertain. Two, and
even three days, have frequently been wasted in futile attempts to
procure a sufficiency of hydrogen to fill a balloon, from which it
had great tendency to escape, owing to its extreme subtlety, and its
affinity for the surrounding atmosphere. In a balloon sufficiently
perfect to retain its contents of coal-gas unaltered, in quantity or
amount, for six months, an equal quantity of hydrogen could not be
maintained in equal purity for six weeks.

"The supporting power being estimated at 2500 pounds, and the united
weights of the party amounting only to about 1200, there was left a
surplus of 1300, of which again 1200 was exhausted by ballast, arranged
in bags of different sizes, with their respective weights marked upon
them--by cordage, barometers, telescopes, barrels containing provision
for a fortnight, water-casks, cloaks, carpet-bags, and various other
indispensable matters, including a coffee-warmer, contrived for warming
coffee by means of slack-lime, so as to dispense altogether with fire,
if it should be judged prudent to do so. All these articles, with the
exception of the ballast, and a few trifles, were suspended from the
hoop overhead. The car is much smaller and lighter, in proportion, than
the one appended to the model. It is formed of a light wicker, and is
wonderfully strong, for so frail looking a machine. Its rim is about
four feet deep. The rudder is also very much larger, in proportion, than
that of the model; and the screw is considerably smaller. The balloon is
furnished besides with a grapnel, and a guide-rope; which latter is of
the most indispensable importance. A few words, in explanation, will
here be necessary for such of our readers as are not conversant with the
details of aerostation.

"As soon as the balloon quits the earth, it is subjected to the
influence of many circumstances tending to create a difference in its
weight; augmenting or diminishing its ascending power. For example,
there may be a deposition of dew upon the silk, to the extent, even,
of several hundred pounds; ballast has then to be thrown out, or the
machine may descend. This ballast being discarded, and a clear sunshine
evaporating the dew, and at the same time expanding the gas in the silk,
the whole will again rapidly ascend. To check this ascent, the only
recourse is, (or rather _was_, until Mr. Green's invention of the
guide-rope,) the permission of the escape of gas from the valve; but, in
the loss of gas, is a proportionate general loss of ascending power; so
that, in a comparatively brief period, the best-constructed balloon must
necessarily exhaust all its resources, and come to the earth. This was
the great obstacle to voyages of length.

"The guide-rope remedies the difficulty in the simplest manner
conceivable. It is merely a very long rope which is suffered to trail
from the car, and the effect of which is to prevent the balloon from
changing its level in any material degree. If, for example, there should
be a deposition of moisture upon the silk, and the machine begins to
descend in consequence, there will be no necessity for discharging
ballast to remedy the increase of weight, for it is remedied, or
counteracted, in an exactly just proportion, by the deposit on the
ground of just so much of the end of the rope as is necessary. If,
on the other hand, any circumstances should cause undue levity, and
consequent ascent, this levity is immediately counteracted by the
additional weight of rope upraised from the earth. Thus, the balloon
can neither ascend or descend, except within very narrow limits, and its
resources, either in gas or ballast, remain comparatively unimpaired.
When passing over an expanse of water, it becomes necessary to employ
small kegs of copper or wood, filled with liquid ballast of a lighter
nature than water. These float, and serve all the purposes of a mere
rope on land. Another most important office of the guide-rope, is to
point out the _direction_ of the balloon. The rope _drags_, either on
land or sea, while the balloon is free; the latter, consequently, is
always in advance, when any progress whatever is made: a comparison,
therefore, by means of the compass, of the relative positions of the two
objects, will always indicate the _course_. In the same way, the angle
formed by the rope with the vertical axis of the machine, indicates
the _velocity_. When there is _no_ angle--in other words, when the rope
hangs perpendicularly, the whole apparatus is stationary; but the larger
the angle, that is to say, the farther the balloon precedes the end of
the rope, the greater the velocity; and the converse.

"As the original design was to cross the British Channel, and alight as
near Paris as possible, the voyagers had taken the precaution to prepare
themselves with passports directed to all parts of the Continent,
specifying the nature of the expedition, as in the case of the Nassau
voyage, and entitling the adventurers to exemption from the usual
formalities of office: unexpected events, however, rendered these
passports superfluous.

"The inflation was commenced very quietly at daybreak, on Saturday
morning, the 6th instant, in the Court-Yard of Weal-Vor House, Mr.
Osborne's seat, about a mile from Penstruthal, in North Wales; and at 7
minutes past 11, every thing being ready for departure, the balloon was
set free, rising gently but steadily, in a direction nearly South; no
use being made, for the first half hour, of either the screw or the
rudder. We proceed now with the journal, as transcribed by Mr. Forsyth
from the joint MSS. Of Mr. Monck Mason, and Mr. Ainsworth. The body of
the journal, as given, is in the hand-writing of Mr. Mason, and a P.
S. is appended, each day, by Mr. Ainsworth, who has in preparation, and
will shortly give the public a more minute, and no doubt, a thrillingly
interesting account of the voyage.

"THE JOURNAL.

"_Saturday, April the 6th_.--Every preparation likely to embarrass us,
having been made over night, we commenced the inflation this morning at
daybreak; but owing to a thick fog, which encumbered the folds of the
silk and rendered it unmanageable, we did not get through before nearly
eleven o'clock. Cut loose, then, in high spirits, and rose gently but
steadily, with a light breeze at North, which bore us in the direction
of the British Channel. Found the ascending force greater than we had
expected; and as we arose higher and so got clear of the cliffs, and
more in the sun's rays, our ascent became very rapid. I did not wish,
however, to lose gas at so early a period of the adventure, and so
concluded to ascend for the present. We soon ran out our guide-rope;
but even when we had raised it clear of the earth, we still went up very
rapidly. The balloon was unusually steady, and looked beautifully. In
about ten minutes after starting, the barometer indicated an altitude
of 15,000 feet. The weather was remarkably fine, and the view of the
subjacent country--a most romantic one when seen from any point,--was
now especially sublime. The numerous deep gorges presented the
appearance of lakes, on account of the dense vapors with which they
were filled, and the pinnacles and crags to the South East, piled in
inextricable confusion, resembling nothing so much as the giant cities
of eastern fable. We were rapidly approaching the mountains in the
South; but our elevation was more than sufficient to enable us to pass
them in safety. In a few minutes we soared over them in fine style; and
Mr. Ainsworth, with the seamen, was surprised at their apparent want of
altitude when viewed from the car, the tendency of great elevation in a
balloon being to reduce inequalities of the surface below, to nearly
a dead level. At half-past eleven still proceeding nearly South, we
obtained our first view of the Bristol Channel; and, in fifteen minutes
afterward, the line of breakers on the coast appeared immediately
beneath us, and we were fairly out at sea. We now resolved to let off
enough gas to bring our guide-rope, with the buoys affixed, into the
water. This was immediately done, and we commenced a gradual descent.
In about twenty minutes our first buoy dipped, and at the touch of the
second soon afterwards, we remained stationary as to elevation. We were
all now anxious to test the efficiency of the rudder and screw, and we
put them both into requisition forthwith, for the purpose of altering
our direction more to the eastward, and in a line for Paris. By means of
the rudder we instantly effected the necessary change of direction, and
our course was brought nearly at right angles to that of the wind; when
we set in motion the spring of the screw, and were rejoiced to find it
propel us readily as desired. Upon this we gave nine hearty cheers, and
dropped in the sea a bottle, enclosing a slip of parchment with a brief
account of the principle of the invention. Hardly, however, had we
done with our rejoicings, when an unforeseen accident occurred which
discouraged us in no little degree. The steel rod connecting the spring
with the propeller was suddenly jerked out of place, at the car end, (by
a swaying of the car through some movement of one of the two seamen we
had taken up,) and in an instant hung dangling out of reach, from the
pivot of the axis of the screw. While we were endeavoring to regain it,
our attention being completely absorbed, we became involved in a strong
current of wind from the East, which bore us, with rapidly increasing
force, towards the Atlantic. We soon found ourselves driving out to sea
at the rate of not less, certainly, than fifty or sixty miles an hour,
so that we came up with Cape Clear, at some forty miles to our North,
before we had secured the rod, and had time to think what we were about.
It was now that Mr. Ainsworth made an extraordinary, but to my fancy,
a by no means unreasonable or chimerical proposition, in which he was
instantly seconded by Mr. Holland--viz.: that we should take advantage
of the strong gale which bore us on, and in place of beating back to
Paris, make an attempt to reach the coast of North America. After slight
reflection I gave a willing assent to this bold proposition, which
(strange to say) met with objection from the two seamen only. As the
stronger party, however, we overruled their fears, and kept resolutely
upon our course. We steered due West; but as the trailing of the buoys
materially impeded our progress, and we had the balloon abundantly at
command, either for ascent or descent, we first threw out fifty pounds
of ballast, and then wound up (by means of a windlass) so much of the
rope as brought it quite clear of the sea. We perceived the effect of
this manoeuvre immediately, in a vastly increased rate of progress; and,
as the gale freshened, we flew with a velocity nearly inconceivable; the
guide-rope flying out behind the car, like a streamer from a vessel. It
is needless to say that a very short time sufficed us to lose sight of
the coast. We passed over innumerable vessels of all kinds, a few of
which were endeavoring to beat up, but the most of them lying to. We
occasioned the greatest excitement on board all--an excitement greatly
relished by ourselves, and especially by our two men, who, now under the
influence of a dram of Geneva, seemed resolved to give all scruple, or
fear, to the wind. Many of the vessels fired signal guns; and in all
we were saluted with loud cheers (which we heard with surprising
distinctness) and the waving of caps and handkerchiefs. We kept on in
this manner throughout the day, with no material incident, and, as
the shades of night closed around us, we made a rough estimate of the
distance traversed. It could not have been less than five hundred
miles, and was probably much more. The propeller was kept in constant
operation, and, no doubt, aided our progress materially. As the sun
went down, the gale freshened into an absolute hurricane, and the ocean
beneath was clearly visible on account of its phosphorescence. The wind
was from the East all night, and gave us the brightest omen of success.
We suffered no little from cold, and the dampness of the atmosphere was
most unpleasant; but the ample space in the car enabled us to lie down,
and by means of cloaks and a few blankets, we did sufficiently well.

"P.S. (by Mr. Ainsworth.) The last nine hours have been unquestionably
the most exciting of my life. I can conceive nothing more sublimating
than the strange peril and novelty of an adventure such as this. May
God grant that we succeed! I ask not success for mere safety to my
insignificant person, but for the sake of human knowledge and--for the
vastness of the triumph. And yet the feat is only so evidently feasible
that the sole wonder is why men have scrupled to attempt it before. One
single gale such as now befriends us--let such a tempest whirl forward
a balloon for four or five days (these gales often last longer) and the
voyager will be easily borne, in that period, from coast to coast. In
view of such a gale the broad Atlantic becomes a mere lake. I am more
struck, just now, with the supreme silence which reigns in the
sea beneath us, notwithstanding its agitation, than with any other
phenomenon presenting itself. The waters give up no voice to
the heavens. The immense flaming ocean writhes and is tortured
uncomplainingly. The mountainous surges suggest the idea of innumerable
dumb gigantic fiends struggling in impotent agony. In a night such as is
this to me, a man _lives_--lives a whole century of ordinary life--nor
would I forego this rapturous delight for that of a whole century of
ordinary existence.

"_Sunday, the seventh_. [Mr. Mason's MS.] This morning the gale, by 10,
had subsided to an eight or nine--knot breeze, (for a vessel at sea,)
and bears us, perhaps, thirty miles per hour, or more. It has veered,
however, very considerably to the north; and now, at sundown, we are
holding our course due west, principally by the screw and rudder, which
answer their purposes to admiration. I regard the project as thoroughly
successful, and the easy navigation of the air in any direction (not
exactly in the teeth of a gale) as no longer problematical. We could not
have made head against the strong wind of yesterday; but, by ascending,
we might have got out of its influence, if requisite. Against a pretty
stiff breeze, I feel convinced, we can make our way with the propeller.
At noon, to-day, ascended to an elevation of nearly 25,000 feet, by
discharging ballast. Did this to search for a more direct current, but
found none so favorable as the one we are now in. We have an abundance
of gas to take us across this small pond, even should the voyage
last three weeks. I have not the slightest fear for the result. The
difficulty has been strangely exaggerated and misapprehended. I can
choose my current, and should I find _all_ currents against me, I can
make very tolerable headway with the propeller. We have had no incidents
worth recording. The night promises fair.

P.S. [By Mr. Ainsworth.] I have little to record, except the fact (to me
quite a surprising one) that, at an elevation equal to that of Cotopaxi,
I experienced neither very intense cold, nor headache, nor difficulty
of breathing; neither, I find, did Mr. Mason, nor Mr. Holland, nor Sir
Everard. Mr. Osborne complained of constriction of the chest--but this
soon wore off. We have flown at a great rate during the day, and we
must be more than half way across the Atlantic. We have passed over
some twenty or thirty vessels of various kinds, and all seem to be
delightfully astonished. Crossing the ocean in a balloon is not so
difficult a feat after all. _Omne ignotum pro magnifico. Mem:_ at
25,000 feet elevation the sky appears nearly black, and the stars are
distinctly visible; while the sea does not seem convex (as one might
suppose) but absolutely and most unequivocally _concave_.(*1)

"_Monday, the 8th_. [Mr. Mason's MS.] This morning we had again some
little trouble with the rod of the propeller, which must be entirely
remodelled, for fear of serious accident--I mean the steel rod--not
the vanes. The latter could not be improved. The wind has been blowing
steadily and strongly from the north-east all day and so far fortune
seems bent upon favoring us. Just before day, we were all somewhat
alarmed at some odd noises and concussions in the balloon, accompanied
with the apparent rapid subsidence of the whole machine. These phenomena
were occasioned by the expansion of the gas, through increase of heat in
the atmosphere, and the consequent disruption of the minute particles of
ice with which the network had become encrusted during the night. Threw
down several bottles to the vessels below. Saw one of them picked up by
a large ship--seemingly one of the New York line packets. Endeavored to
make out her name, but could not be sure of it. Mr. Osborne's telescope
made it out something like "Atalanta." It is now 12, at night, and we
are still going nearly west, at a rapid pace. The sea is peculiarly
phosphorescent.

"P.S. [By Mr. Ainsworth.] It is now 2, A.M., and nearly calm, as well as
I can judge--but it is very difficult to determine this point, since
we move _with_ the air so completely. I have not slept since quitting
Wheal-Vor, but can stand it no longer, and must take a nap. We cannot be
far from the American coast.

"_Tuesday, the _9_th_. [Mr. Ainsworth's MS.] _One, P.M. We are in
full view of the low coast of South Carolina_. The great problem is
accomplished. We have crossed the Atlantic--fairly and _easily_
crossed it in a balloon! God be praised! Who shall say that anything is
impossible hereafter?"

The Journal here ceases. Some particulars of the descent were
communicated, however, by Mr. Ainsworth to Mr. Forsyth. It was nearly
dead calm when the voyagers first came in view of the coast, which
was immediately recognized by both the seamen, and by Mr. Osborne.
The latter gentleman having acquaintances at Fort Moultrie, it was
immediately resolved to descend in its vicinity. The balloon was brought
over the beach (the tide being out and the sand hard, smooth, and
admirably adapted for a descent,) and the grapnel let go, which took
firm hold at once. The inhabitants of the island, and of the fort,
thronged out, of course, to see the balloon; but it was with the
greatest difficulty that any one could be made to credit the actual
voyage--_the crossing of the Atlantic_. The grapnel caught at 2, P.M.,
precisely; and thus the whole voyage was completed in seventy-five
hours; or rather less, counting from shore to shore. No serious accident
occurred. No real danger was at any time apprehended. The balloon was
exhausted and secured without trouble; and when the MS.  from which this
narrative is compiled was despatched from Charleston, the party were
still at Fort Moultrie. Their farther intentions were not ascertained;
but we can safely promise our readers some additional information either
on Monday or in the course of the next day, at farthest.

This is unquestionably the most stupendous, the most interesting, and
the most important undertaking, ever accomplished or even attempted by
man. What magnificent events may ensue, it would be useless now to think
of determining.

(*1) _Note_.--Mr. Ainsworth has not attempted to account for this
phenomenon, which, however, is quite susceptible of explanation. A line
dropped from an elevation of 25,000 feet, perpendicularly to the surface
of the earth (or sea), would form the perpendicular of a right-angled
triangle, of which the base would extend from the right angle to the
horizon, and the hypothenuse from the horizon to the balloon. But the
25,000 feet of altitude is little or nothing, in comparison with the
extent of the prospect. In other words, the base and hypothenuse of the
supposed triangle would be so long when compared with the perpendicular,
that the two former may be regarded as nearly parallel. In this manner
the horizon of the æronaut would appear to be _on a level_ with the
car. But, as the point immediately beneath him seems, and is, at a great
distance below him, it seems, of course, also, at a great distance below
the horizon. Hence the impression of _concavity_; and this impression
must remain, until the elevation shall bear so great a proportion to
the extent of prospect, that the apparent parallelism of the base and
hypothenuse disappears--when the earth's real convexity must become
apparent.




MS. FOUND IN A BOTTLE

               Qui n'a plus qu'un moment a vivre

               N'a plus rien a dissimuler.

                            --Quinault--Atys.

OF my country and of my family I have little to say. Ill usage and
length of years have driven me from the one, and estranged me from the
other. Hereditary wealth afforded me an education of no common order,
and a contemplative turn of mind enabled me to methodize the stores
which early study very diligently garnered up.--Beyond all things,
the study of the German moralists gave me great delight; not from any
ill-advised admiration of their eloquent madness, but from the ease with
which my habits of rigid thought enabled me to detect their falsities.
I have often been reproached with the aridity of my genius; a deficiency
of imagination has been imputed to me as a crime; and the Pyrrhonism
of my opinions has at all times rendered me notorious. Indeed, a strong
relish for physical philosophy has, I fear, tinctured my mind with
a very common error of this age--I mean the habit of referring
occurrences, even the least susceptible of such reference, to the
principles of that science. Upon the whole, no person could be less
liable than myself to be led away from the severe precincts of truth by
the ignes fatui of superstition. I have thought proper to premise thus
much, lest the incredible tale I have to tell should be considered
rather the raving of a crude imagination, than the positive experience
of a mind to which the reveries of fancy have been a dead letter and a
nullity.

After many years spent in foreign travel, I sailed in the year 18-- ,
from the port of Batavia, in the rich and populous island of Java, on
a voyage to the Archipelago of the Sunda islands. I went as
passenger--having no other inducement than a kind of nervous
restlessness which haunted me as a fiend.

Our vessel was a beautiful ship of about four hundred tons,
copper-fastened, and built at Bombay of Malabar teak. She was freighted
with cotton-wool and oil, from the Lachadive islands. We had also on
board coir, jaggeree, ghee, cocoa-nuts, and a few cases of opium. The
stowage was clumsily done, and the vessel consequently crank.

We got under way with a mere breath of wind, and for many days stood
along the eastern coast of Java, without any other incident to beguile
the monotony of our course than the occasional meeting with some of the
small grabs of the Archipelago to which we were bound.

One evening, leaning over the taffrail, I observed a very singular,
isolated cloud, to the N.W. It was remarkable, as well for its color, as
from its being the first we had seen since our departure from Batavia.
I watched it attentively until sunset, when it spread all at once to
the eastward and westward, girting in the horizon with a narrow strip
of vapor, and looking like a long line of low beach. My notice was soon
afterwards attracted by the dusky-red appearance of the moon, and the
peculiar character of the sea. The latter was undergoing a rapid change,
and the water seemed more than usually transparent. Although I could
distinctly see the bottom, yet, heaving the lead, I found the ship in
fifteen fathoms. The air now became intolerably hot, and was loaded with
spiral exhalations similar to those arising from heat iron. As night
came on, every breath of wind died away, an more entire calm it is
impossible to conceive. The flame of a candle burned upon the poop
without the least perceptible motion, and a long hair, held between the
finger and thumb, hung without the possibility of detecting a vibration.
However, as the captain said he could perceive no indication of danger,
and as we were drifting in bodily to shore, he ordered the sails to
be furled, and the anchor let go. No watch was set, and the crew,
consisting principally of Malays, stretched themselves deliberately upon
deck. I went below--not without a full presentiment of evil. Indeed,
every appearance warranted me in apprehending a Simoom. I told the
captain my fears; but he paid no attention to what I said, and left me
without deigning to give a reply. My uneasiness, however, prevented me
from sleeping, and about midnight I went upon deck.--As I placed my foot
upon the upper step of the companion-ladder, I was startled by a
loud, humming noise, like that occasioned by the rapid revolution of a
mill-wheel, and before I could ascertain its meaning, I found the ship
quivering to its centre. In the next instant, a wilderness of foam
hurled us upon our beam-ends, and, rushing over us fore and aft, swept
the entire decks from stem to stern.

The extreme fury of the blast proved, in a great measure, the salvation
of the ship. Although completely water-logged, yet, as her masts had
gone by the board, she rose, after a minute, heavily from the sea, and,
staggering awhile beneath the immense pressure of the tempest, finally
righted.

By what miracle I escaped destruction, it is impossible to say. Stunned
by the shock of the water, I found myself, upon recovery, jammed in
between the stern-post and rudder. With great difficulty I gained my
feet, and looking dizzily around, was, at first, struck with the idea of
our being among breakers; so terrific, beyond the wildest imagination,
was the whirlpool of mountainous and foaming ocean within which we were
engulfed. After a while, I heard the voice of an old Swede, who had
shipped with us at the moment of our leaving port. I hallooed to
him with all my strength, and presently he came reeling aft. We soon
discovered that we were the sole survivors of the accident. All on deck,
with the exception of ourselves, had been swept overboard;--the captain
and mates must have perished as they slept, for the cabins were deluged
with water. Without assistance, we could expect to do little for the
security of the ship, and our exertions were at first paralyzed by the
momentary expectation of going down. Our cable had, of course, parted
like pack-thread, at the first breath of the hurricane, or we should
have been instantaneously overwhelmed. We scudded with frightful
velocity before the sea, and the water made clear breaches over us. The
frame-work of our stern was shattered excessively, and, in almost every
respect, we had received considerable injury; but to our extreme Joy we
found the pumps unchoked, and that we had made no great shifting of
our ballast. The main fury of the blast had already blown over, and we
apprehended little danger from the violence of the wind; but we looked
forward to its total cessation with dismay; well believing, that, in our
shattered condition, we should inevitably perish in the tremendous swell
which would ensue. But this very just apprehension seemed by no means
likely to be soon verified. For five entire days and nights--during
which our only subsistence was a small quantity of jaggeree, procured
with great difficulty from the forecastle--the hulk flew at a rate
defying computation, before rapidly succeeding flaws of wind, which,
without equalling the first violence of the Simoom, were still more
terrific than any tempest I had before encountered. Our course for the
first four days was, with trifling variations, S.E. and by S.; and we
must have run down the coast of New Holland.--On the fifth day the cold
became extreme, although the wind had hauled round a point more to the
northward.--The sun arose with a sickly yellow lustre, and clambered a
very few degrees above the horizon--emitting no decisive light.--There
were no clouds apparent, yet the wind was upon the increase, and blew
with a fitful and unsteady fury. About noon, as nearly as we could
guess, our attention was again arrested by the appearance of the sun.
It gave out no light, properly so called, but a dull and sullen glow
without reflection, as if all its rays were polarized. Just before
sinking within the turgid sea, its central fires suddenly went out, as
if hurriedly extinguished by some unaccountable power. It was a dim,
sliver-like rim, alone, as it rushed down the unfathomable ocean.

We waited in vain for the arrival of the sixth day--that day to me
has not arrived--to the Swede, never did arrive. Thenceforward we were
enshrouded in patchy darkness, so that we could not have seen an object
at twenty paces from the ship. Eternal night continued to envelop us,
all unrelieved by the phosphoric sea-brilliancy to which we had been
accustomed in the tropics. We observed too, that, although the tempest
continued to rage with unabated violence, there was no longer to be
discovered the usual appearance of surf, or foam, which had hitherto
attended us. All around were horror, and thick gloom, and a black
sweltering desert of ebony.--Superstitious terror crept by degrees into
the spirit of the old Swede, and my own soul was wrapped up in silent
wonder. We neglected all care of the ship, as worse than useless, and
securing ourselves, as well as possible, to the stump of the mizen-mast,
looked out bitterly into the world of ocean. We had no means of
calculating time, nor could we form any guess of our situation. We were,
however, well aware of having made farther to the southward than any
previous navigators, and felt great amazement at not meeting with the
usual impediments of ice. In the meantime every moment threatened to be
our last--every mountainous billow hurried to overwhelm us. The swell
surpassed anything I had imagined possible, and that we were not
instantly buried is a miracle. My companion spoke of the lightness of
our cargo, and reminded me of the excellent qualities of our ship; but
I could not help feeling the utter hopelessness of hope itself, and
prepared myself gloomily for that death which I thought nothing could
defer beyond an hour, as, with every knot of way the ship made,
the swelling of the black stupendous seas became more dismally
appalling. At times we gasped for breath at an elevation beyond the
albatross--at times became dizzy with the velocity of our descent into
some watery hell, where the air grew stagnant, and no sound disturbed
the slumbers of the kraken.

We were at the bottom of one of these abysses, when a quick scream
from my companion broke fearfully upon the night. "See! see!" cried he,
shrieking in my ears, "Almighty God! see! see!" As he spoke, I became
aware of a dull, sullen glare of red light which streamed down the sides
of the vast chasm where we lay, and threw a fitful brilliancy upon our
deck. Casting my eyes upwards, I beheld a spectacle which froze the
current of my blood. At a terrific height directly above us, and upon
the very verge of the precipitous descent, hovered a gigantic ship of,
perhaps, four thousand tons. Although upreared upon the summit of a wave
more than a hundred times her own altitude, her apparent size exceeded
that of any ship of the line or East Indiaman in existence. Her huge
hull was of a deep dingy black, unrelieved by any of the customary
carvings of a ship. A single row of brass cannon protruded from her open
ports, and dashed from their polished surfaces the fires of innumerable
battle-lanterns, which swung to and fro about her rigging. But what
mainly inspired us with horror and astonishment, was that she bore up
under a press of sail in the very teeth of that supernatural sea, and of
that ungovernable hurricane. When we first discovered her, her bows
were alone to be seen, as she rose slowly from the dim and horrible gulf
beyond her. For a moment of intense terror she paused upon the giddy
pinnacle, as if in contemplation of her own sublimity, then trembled and
tottered, and--came down.

At this instant, I know not what sudden self-possession came over my
spirit. Staggering as far aft as I could, I awaited fearlessly the ruin
that was to overwhelm. Our own vessel was at length ceasing from her
struggles, and sinking with her head to the sea. The shock of the
descending mass struck her, consequently, in that portion of her frame
which was already under water, and the inevitable result was to hurl me,
with irresistible violence, upon the rigging of the stranger.

As I fell, the ship hove in stays, and went about; and to the confusion
ensuing I attributed my escape from the notice of the crew. With little
difficulty I made my way unperceived to the main hatchway, which was
partially open, and soon found an opportunity of secreting myself in the
hold. Why I did so I can hardly tell. An indefinite sense of awe, which
at first sight of the navigators of the ship had taken hold of my mind,
was perhaps the principle of my concealment. I was unwilling to trust
myself with a race of people who had offered, to the cursory glance I
had taken, so many points of vague novelty, doubt, and apprehension. I
therefore thought proper to contrive a hiding-place in the hold. This I
did by removing a small portion of the shifting-boards, in such a manner
as to afford me a convenient retreat between the huge timbers of the
ship.

I had scarcely completed my work, when a footstep in the hold forced me
to make use of it. A man passed by my place of concealment with a feeble
and unsteady gait. I could not see his face, but had an opportunity
of observing his general appearance. There was about it an evidence of
great age and infirmity. His knees tottered beneath a load of years, and
his entire frame quivered under the burthen. He muttered to himself,
in a low broken tone, some words of a language which I could not
understand, and groped in a corner among a pile of singular-looking
instruments, and decayed charts of navigation. His manner was a wild
mixture of the peevishness of second childhood, and the solemn dignity
of a God. He at length went on deck, and I saw him no more.

* * * * *

A feeling, for which I have no name, has taken possession of my soul
--a sensation which will admit of no analysis, to which the lessons of
bygone times are inadequate, and for which I fear futurity itself
will offer me no key. To a mind constituted like my own, the latter
consideration is an evil. I shall never--I know that I shall
never--be satisfied with regard to the nature of my conceptions. Yet it
is not wonderful that these conceptions are indefinite, since they have
their origin in sources so utterly novel. A new sense--a new entity is
added to my soul.

* * * * *

It is long since I first trod the deck of this terrible ship, and the
rays of my destiny are, I think, gathering to a focus. Incomprehensible
men! Wrapped up in meditations of a kind which I cannot divine, they
pass me by unnoticed. Concealment is utter folly on my part, for the
people will not see. It was but just now that I passed directly before
the eyes of the mate--it was no long while ago that I ventured into the
captain's own private cabin, and took thence the materials with which
I write, and have written. I shall from time to time continue this
Journal. It is true that I may not find an opportunity of transmitting
it to the world, but I will not fall to make the endeavour. At the last
moment I will enclose the MS. in a bottle, and cast it within the sea.

* * * * *

An incident has occurred which has given me new room for meditation. Are
such things the operation of ungoverned Chance? I had ventured upon deck
and thrown myself down, without attracting any notice, among a pile of
ratlin-stuff and old sails in the bottom of the yawl. While musing upon
the singularity of my fate, I unwittingly daubed with a tar-brush the
edges of a neatly-folded studding-sail which lay near me on a barrel.
The studding-sail is now bent upon the ship, and the thoughtless touches
of the brush are spread out into the word DISCOVERY.

I have made many observations lately upon the structure of the vessel.
Although well armed, she is not, I think, a ship of war. Her rigging,
build, and general equipment, all negative a supposition of this
kind. What she is not, I can easily perceive--what she is I fear it is
impossible to say. I know not how it is, but in scrutinizing her strange
model and singular cast of spars, her huge size and overgrown suits
of canvas, her severely simple bow and antiquated stern, there will
occasionally flash across my mind a sensation of familiar things, and
there is always mixed up with such indistinct shadows of recollection,
an unaccountable memory of old foreign chronicles and ages long ago.

* * * * *

I have been looking at the timbers of the ship. She is built of a
material to which I am a stranger. There is a peculiar character about
the wood which strikes me as rendering it unfit for the purpose to
which it has been applied. I mean its extreme porousness, considered
independently by the worm-eaten condition which is a consequence of
navigation in these seas, and apart from the rottenness attendant upon
age. It will appear perhaps an observation somewhat over-curious, but
this wood would have every characteristic of Spanish oak, if Spanish oak
were distended by any unnatural means.

In reading the above sentence a curious apothegm of an old
weather-beaten Dutch navigator comes full upon my recollection. "It
is as sure," he was wont to say, when any doubt was entertained of his
veracity, "as sure as there is a sea where the ship itself will grow in
bulk like the living body of the seaman."

* * * * *

About an hour ago, I made bold to thrust myself among a group of the
crew. They paid me no manner of attention, and, although I stood in the
very midst of them all, seemed utterly unconscious of my presence. Like
the one I had at first seen in the hold, they all bore about them the
marks of a hoary old age. Their knees trembled with infirmity; their
shoulders were bent double with decrepitude; their shrivelled skins
rattled in the wind; their voices were low, tremulous and broken; their
eyes glistened with the rheum of years; and their gray hairs streamed
terribly in the tempest. Around them, on every part of the deck, lay
scattered mathematical instruments of the most quaint and obsolete
construction.

* * * * *

I mentioned some time ago the bending of a studding-sail. From that
period the ship, being thrown dead off the wind, has continued her
terrific course due south, with every rag of canvas packed upon her,
from her trucks to her lower studding-sail booms, and rolling every
moment her top-gallant yard-arms into the most appalling hell of water
which it can enter into the mind of a man to imagine. I have just left
the deck, where I find it impossible to maintain a footing, although the
crew seem to experience little inconvenience. It appears to me a miracle
of miracles that our enormous bulk is not swallowed up at once and
forever. We are surely doomed to hover continually upon the brink of
Eternity, without taking a final plunge into the abyss. From billows a
thousand times more stupendous than any I have ever seen, we glide away
with the facility of the arrowy sea-gull; and the colossal waters rear
their heads above us like demons of the deep, but like demons confined
to simple threats and forbidden to destroy. I am led to attribute these
frequent escapes to the only natural cause which can account for such
effect.--I must suppose the ship to be within the influence of some
strong current, or impetuous under-tow.

* * * * *

I have seen the captain face to face, and in his own cabin--but, as I
expected, he paid me no attention. Although in his appearance there is,
to a casual observer, nothing which might bespeak him more or less than
man--still a feeling of irrepressible reverence and awe mingled with the
sensation of wonder with which I regarded him. In stature he is nearly
my own height; that is, about five feet eight inches. He is of a
well-knit and compact frame of body, neither robust nor remarkably
otherwise. But it is the singularity of the expression which reigns upon
the face--it is the intense, the wonderful, the thrilling evidence of
old age, so utter, so extreme, which excites within my spirit a sense--a
sentiment ineffable. His forehead, although little wrinkled, seems to
bear upon it the stamp of a myriad of years.--His gray hairs are records
of the past, and his grayer eyes are Sybils of the future. The cabin
floor was thickly strewn with strange, iron-clasped folios, and
mouldering instruments of science, and obsolete long-forgotten charts.
His head was bowed down upon his hands, and he pored, with a fiery
unquiet eye, over a paper which I took to be a commission, and which, at
all events, bore the signature of a monarch. He muttered to himself, as
did the first seaman whom I saw in the hold, some low peevish syllables
of a foreign tongue, and although the speaker was close at my elbow, his
voice seemed to reach my ears from the distance of a mile.

* * * * *

The ship and all in it are imbued with the spirit of Eld. The crew glide
to and fro like the ghosts of buried centuries; their eyes have an eager
and uneasy meaning; and when their fingers fall athwart my path in the
wild glare of the battle-lanterns, I feel as I have never felt before,
although I have been all my life a dealer in antiquities, and have
imbibed the shadows of fallen columns at Balbec, and Tadmor, and
Persepolis, until my very soul has become a ruin.

* * * * *

When I look around me I feel ashamed of my former apprehensions. If I
trembled at the blast which has hitherto attended us, shall I not stand
aghast at a warring of wind and ocean, to convey any idea of which
the words tornado and simoom are trivial and ineffective? All in the
immediate vicinity of the ship is the blackness of eternal night, and a
chaos of foamless water; but, about a league on either side of us, may
be seen, indistinctly and at intervals, stupendous ramparts of ice,
towering away into the desolate sky, and looking like the walls of the
universe.

* * * * *

As I imagined, the ship proves to be in a current; if that appellation
can properly be given to a tide which, howling and shrieking by the
white ice, thunders on to the southward with a velocity like the
headlong dashing of a cataract.

* * * * *

To conceive the horror of my sensations is, I presume, utterly
impossible; yet a curiosity to penetrate the mysteries of these awful
regions, predominates even over my despair, and will reconcile me to the
most hideous aspect of death. It is evident that we are hurrying onwards
to some exciting knowledge--some never-to-be-imparted secret, whose
attainment is destruction. Perhaps this current leads us to the southern
pole itself. It must be confessed that a supposition apparently so wild
has every probability in its favor.

* * * * *

The crew pace the deck with unquiet and tremulous step; but there is
upon their countenances an expression more of the eagerness of hope than
of the apathy of despair.

In the meantime the wind is still in our poop, and, as we carry a crowd
of canvas, the ship is at times lifted bodily from out the sea--Oh,
horror upon horror! the ice opens suddenly to the right, and to the
left, and we are whirling dizzily, in immense concentric circles, round
and round the borders of a gigantic amphitheatre, the summit of whose
walls is lost in the darkness and the distance. But little time will be
left me to ponder upon my destiny--the circles rapidly grow small--we
are plunging madly within the grasp of the whirlpool--and amid a
roaring, and bellowing, and thundering of ocean and of tempest, the ship
is quivering, oh God! and--going down.

NOTE.--The "MS. Found in a Bottle," was originally published in 1831,
and it was not until many years afterwards that I became acquainted with
the maps of Mercator, in which the ocean is represented as rushing, by
four mouths, into the (northern) Polar Gulf, to be absorbed into the
bowels of the earth; the Pole itself being represented by a black rock,
towering to a prodigious height.




THE OVAL PORTRAIT

THE chateau into which my valet had ventured to make forcible entrance,
rather than permit me, in my desperately wounded condition, to pass a
night in the open air, was one of those piles of commingled gloom and
grandeur which have so long frowned among the Appennines, not less in
fact than in the fancy of Mrs. Radcliffe. To all appearance it had been
temporarily and very lately abandoned. We established ourselves in one
of the smallest and least sumptuously furnished apartments. It lay in a
remote turret of the building. Its decorations were rich, yet tattered
and antique. Its walls were hung with tapestry and bedecked with
manifold and multiform armorial trophies, together with an unusually
great number of very spirited modern paintings in frames of rich golden
arabesque. In these paintings, which depended from the walls not only
in their main surfaces, but in very many nooks which the bizarre
architecture of the chateau rendered necessary--in these paintings my
incipient delirium, perhaps, had caused me to take deep interest; so
that I bade Pedro to close the heavy shutters of the room--since it was
already night--to light the tongues of a tall candelabrum which stood by
the head of my bed--and to throw open far and wide the fringed curtains
of black velvet which enveloped the bed itself. I wished all this done
that I might resign myself, if not to sleep, at least alternately to the
contemplation of these pictures, and the perusal of a small volume which
had been found upon the pillow, and which purported to criticise and
describe them.

Long--long I read--and devoutly, devotedly I gazed. Rapidly and
gloriously the hours flew by and the deep midnight came. The position of
the candelabrum displeased me, and outreaching my hand with difficulty,
rather than disturb my slumbering valet, I placed it so as to throw its
rays more fully upon the book.

But the action produced an effect altogether unanticipated. The rays of
the numerous candles (for there were many) now fell within a niche of
the room which had hitherto been thrown into deep shade by one of the
bed-posts. I thus saw in vivid light a picture all unnoticed before. It
was the portrait of a young girl just ripening into womanhood. I glanced
at the painting hurriedly, and then closed my eyes. Why I did this
was not at first apparent even to my own perception. But while my lids
remained thus shut, I ran over in my mind my reason for so shutting
them. It was an impulsive movement to gain time for thought--to make
sure that my vision had not deceived me--to calm and subdue my fancy for
a more sober and more certain gaze. In a very few moments I again looked
fixedly at the painting.

That I now saw aright I could not and would not doubt; for the first
flashing of the candles upon that canvas had seemed to dissipate the
dreamy stupor which was stealing over my senses, and to startle me at
once into waking life.

The portrait, I have already said, was that of a young girl. It was a
mere head and shoulders, done in what is technically termed a vignette
manner; much in the style of the favorite heads of Sully. The arms, the
bosom, and even the ends of the radiant hair melted imperceptibly into
the vague yet deep shadow which formed the back-ground of the whole. The
frame was oval, richly gilded and filigreed in Moresque. As a thing of
art nothing could be more admirable than the painting itself. But it
could have been neither the execution of the work, nor the immortal
beauty of the countenance, which had so suddenly and so vehemently moved
me. Least of all, could it have been that my fancy, shaken from its half
slumber, had mistaken the head for that of a living person. I saw at
once that the peculiarities of the design, of the vignetting, and of the
frame, must have instantly dispelled such idea--must have prevented even
its momentary entertainment. Thinking earnestly upon these points, I
remained, for an hour perhaps, half sitting, half reclining, with my
vision riveted upon the portrait. At length, satisfied with the true
secret of its effect, I fell back within the bed. I had found the spell
of the picture in an absolute life-likeliness of expression, which, at
first startling, finally confounded, subdued, and appalled me. With deep
and reverent awe I replaced the candelabrum in its former position. The
cause of my deep agitation being thus shut from view, I sought eagerly
the volume which discussed the paintings and their histories. Turning
to the number which designated the oval portrait, I there read the vague
and quaint words which follow:

"She was a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of
glee. And evil was the hour when she saw, and loved, and wedded the
painter. He, passionate, studious, austere, and having already a bride
in his Art; she a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full
of glee; all light and smiles, and frolicsome as the young fawn; loving
and cherishing all things; hating only the Art which was her rival;
dreading only the pallet and brushes and other untoward instruments
which deprived her of the countenance of her lover. It was thus a
terrible thing for this lady to hear the painter speak of his desire to
portray even his young bride. But she was humble and obedient, and sat
meekly for many weeks in the dark, high turret-chamber where the light
dripped upon the pale canvas only from overhead. But he, the painter,
took glory in his work, which went on from hour to hour, and from day to
day. And he was a passionate, and wild, and moody man, who became lost
in reveries; so that he would not see that the light which fell so
ghastly in that lone turret withered the health and the spirits of his
bride, who pined visibly to all but him. Yet she smiled on and still on,
uncomplainingly, because she saw that the painter (who had high renown)
took a fervid and burning pleasure in his task, and wrought day and
night to depict her who so loved him, yet who grew daily more dispirited
and weak. And in sooth some who beheld the portrait spoke of its
resemblance in low words, as of a mighty marvel, and a proof not less of
the power of the painter than of his deep love for her whom he depicted
so surpassingly well. But at length, as the labor drew nearer to its
conclusion, there were admitted none into the turret; for the painter
had grown wild with the ardor of his work, and turned his eyes from
canvas merely, even to regard the countenance of his wife. And he would
not see that the tints which he spread upon the canvas were drawn from
the cheeks of her who sate beside him. And when many weeks had passed,
and but little remained to do, save one brush upon the mouth and one
tint upon the eye, the spirit of the lady again flickered up as the
flame within the socket of the lamp. And then the brush was given,
and then the tint was placed; and, for one moment, the painter stood
entranced before the work which he had wrought; but in the next, while
he yet gazed, he grew tremulous and very pallid, and aghast, and crying
with a loud voice, 'This is indeed Life itself!' turned suddenly to
regard his beloved:--She was dead!"


The Time Machine, by H. G. Wells [1898]




I


The Time Traveller (for so it will be convenient to speak of him)
was expounding a recondite matter to us. His grey eyes shone and
twinkled, and his usually pale face was flushed and animated. The
fire burned brightly, and the soft radiance of the incandescent
lights in the lilies of silver caught the bubbles that flashed and
passed in our glasses. Our chairs, being his patents, embraced and
caressed us rather than submitted to be sat upon, and there was that
luxurious after-dinner atmosphere when thought roams gracefully
free of the trammels of precision. And he put it to us in this
way--marking the points with a lean forefinger--as we sat and lazily
admired his earnestness over this new paradox (as we thought it)
and his fecundity.

'You must follow me carefully. I shall have to controvert one or two
ideas that are almost universally accepted. The geometry, for
instance, they taught you at school is founded on a misconception.'

'Is not that rather a large thing to expect us to begin upon?'
said Filby, an argumentative person with red hair.

'I do not mean to ask you to accept anything without reasonable
ground for it. You will soon admit as much as I need from you. You
know of course that a mathematical line, a line of thickness _nil_,
has no real existence. They taught you that? Neither has a
mathematical plane. These things are mere abstractions.'

'That is all right,' said the Psychologist.

'Nor, having only length, breadth, and thickness, can a cube have a
real existence.'

'There I object,' said Filby. 'Of course a solid body may exist. All
real things--'

'So most people think. But wait a moment. Can an _instantaneous_
cube exist?'

'Don't follow you,' said Filby.

'Can a cube that does not last for any time at all, have a real
existence?'

Filby became pensive. 'Clearly,' the Time Traveller proceeded, 'any
real body must have extension in _four_ directions: it must have
Length, Breadth, Thickness, and--Duration. But through a natural
infirmity of the flesh, which I will explain to you in a moment, we
incline to overlook this fact. There are really four dimensions,
three which we call the three planes of Space, and a fourth, Time.
There is, however, a tendency to draw an unreal distinction between
the former three dimensions and the latter, because it happens that
our consciousness moves intermittently in one direction along the
latter from the beginning to the end of our lives.'

'That,' said a very young man, making spasmodic efforts to relight
his cigar over the lamp; 'that ... very clear indeed.'

'Now, it is very remarkable that this is so extensively overlooked,'
continued the Time Traveller, with a slight accession of
cheerfulness. 'Really this is what is meant by the Fourth Dimension,
though some people who talk about the Fourth Dimension do not know
they mean it. It is only another way of looking at Time. _There is
no difference between Time and any of the three dimensions of Space
except that our consciousness moves along it_. But some foolish
people have got hold of the wrong side of that idea. You have all
heard what they have to say about this Fourth Dimension?'

'_I_ have not,' said the Provincial Mayor.

'It is simply this. That Space, as our mathematicians have it, is
spoken of as having three dimensions, which one may call Length,
Breadth, and Thickness, and is always definable by reference to
three planes, each at right angles to the others. But some
philosophical people have been asking why _three_ dimensions
particularly--why not another direction at right angles to the other
three?--and have even tried to construct a Four-Dimension geometry.
Professor Simon Newcomb was expounding this to the New York
Mathematical Society only a month or so ago. You know how on a flat
surface, which has only two dimensions, we can represent a figure of
a three-dimensional solid, and similarly they think that by models
of three dimensions they could represent one of four--if they could
master the perspective of the thing. See?'

'I think so,' murmured the Provincial Mayor; and, knitting his
brows, he lapsed into an introspective state, his lips moving as one
who repeats mystic words. 'Yes, I think I see it now,' he said after
some time, brightening in a quite transitory manner.

'Well, I do not mind telling you I have been at work upon this
geometry of Four Dimensions for some time. Some of my results
are curious. For instance, here is a portrait of a man at eight
years old, another at fifteen, another at seventeen, another at
twenty-three, and so on. All these are evidently sections, as it
were, Three-Dimensional representations of his Four-Dimensioned
being, which is a fixed and unalterable thing.

'Scientific people,' proceeded the Time Traveller, after the pause
required for the proper assimilation of this, 'know very well that
Time is only a kind of Space. Here is a popular scientific diagram,
a weather record. This line I trace with my finger shows the
movement of the barometer. Yesterday it was so high, yesterday night
it fell, then this morning it rose again, and so gently upward to
here. Surely the mercury did not trace this line in any of the
dimensions of Space generally recognized? But certainly it traced
such a line, and that line, therefore, we must conclude was along
the Time-Dimension.'

'But,' said the Medical Man, staring hard at a coal in the fire, 'if
Time is really only a fourth dimension of Space, why is it, and why
has it always been, regarded as something different? And why cannot
we move in Time as we move about in the other dimensions of Space?'

The Time Traveller smiled. 'Are you sure we can move freely in
Space? Right and left we can go, backward and forward freely enough,
and men always have done so. I admit we move freely in two
dimensions. But how about up and down? Gravitation limits us there.'

'Not exactly,' said the Medical Man. 'There are balloons.'

'But before the balloons, save for spasmodic jumping and the
inequalities of the surface, man had no freedom of vertical
movement.'

'Still they could move a little up and down,' said the Medical Man.

'Easier, far easier down than up.'

'And you cannot move at all in Time, you cannot get away from the
present moment.'

'My dear sir, that is just where you are wrong. That is just where
the whole world has gone wrong. We are always getting away from the
present moment. Our mental existences, which are immaterial and have
no dimensions, are passing along the Time-Dimension with a uniform
velocity from the cradle to the grave. Just as we should travel _down_
if we began our existence fifty miles above the earth's surface.'

'But the great difficulty is this,' interrupted the Psychologist.
'You _can_ move about in all directions of Space, but you cannot
move about in Time.'

'That is the germ of my great discovery. But you are wrong to say
that we cannot move about in Time. For instance, if I am recalling
an incident very vividly I go back to the instant of its occurrence:
I become absent-minded, as you say. I jump back for a moment. Of
course we have no means of staying back for any length of Time, any
more than a savage or an animal has of staying six feet above the
ground. But a civilized man is better off than the savage in this
respect. He can go up against gravitation in a balloon, and why
should he not hope that ultimately he may be able to stop or
accelerate his drift along the Time-Dimension, or even turn about
and travel the other way?'

'Oh, _this_,' began Filby, 'is all--'

'Why not?' said the Time Traveller.

'It's against reason,' said Filby.

'What reason?' said the Time Traveller.

'You can show black is white by argument,' said Filby, 'but you will
never convince me.'

'Possibly not,' said the Time Traveller. 'But now you begin to see
the object of my investigations into the geometry of Four
Dimensions. Long ago I had a vague inkling of a machine--'

'To travel through Time!' exclaimed the Very Young Man.

'That shall travel indifferently in any direction of Space and Time,
as the driver determines.'

Filby contented himself with laughter.

'But I have experimental verification,' said the Time Traveller.

'It would be remarkably convenient for the historian,' the
Psychologist suggested. 'One might travel back and verify the
accepted account of the Battle of Hastings, for instance!'

'Don't you think you would attract attention?' said the Medical Man.
'Our ancestors had no great tolerance for anachronisms.'

'One might get one's Greek from the very lips of Homer and Plato,'
the Very Young Man thought.

'In which case they would certainly plough you for the Little-go.
The German scholars have improved Greek so much.'

'Then there is the future,' said the Very Young Man. 'Just think!
One might invest all one's money, leave it to accumulate at
interest, and hurry on ahead!'

'To discover a society,' said I, 'erected on a strictly communistic
basis.'

'Of all the wild extravagant theories!' began the Psychologist.

'Yes, so it seemed to me, and so I never talked of it until--'

'Experimental verification!' cried I. 'You are going to verify
_that_?'

'The experiment!' cried Filby, who was getting brain-weary.

'Let's see your experiment anyhow,' said the Psychologist, 'though
it's all humbug, you know.'

The Time Traveller smiled round at us. Then, still smiling faintly,
and with his hands deep in his trousers pockets, he walked slowly
out of the room, and we heard his slippers shuffling down the long
passage to his laboratory.

The Psychologist looked at us. 'I wonder what he's got?'

'Some sleight-of-hand trick or other,' said the Medical Man, and
Filby tried to tell us about a conjurer he had seen at Burslem; but
before he had finished his preface the Time Traveller came back, and
Filby's anecdote collapsed.

The thing the Time Traveller held in his hand was a glittering
metallic framework, scarcely larger than a small clock, and very
delicately made. There was ivory in it, and some transparent
crystalline substance. And now I must be explicit, for this that
follows--unless his explanation is to be accepted--is an absolutely
unaccountable thing. He took one of the small octagonal tables that
were scattered about the room, and set it in front of the fire, with
two legs on the hearthrug. On this table he placed the mechanism.
Then he drew up a chair, and sat down. The only other object on the
table was a small shaded lamp, the bright light of which fell upon
the model. There were also perhaps a dozen candles about, two in
brass candlesticks upon the mantel and several in sconces, so that
the room was brilliantly illuminated. I sat in a low arm-chair
nearest the fire, and I drew this forward so as to be almost between
the Time Traveller and the fireplace. Filby sat behind him, looking
over his shoulder. The Medical Man and the Provincial Mayor watched
him in profile from the right, the Psychologist from the left. The
Very Young Man stood behind the Psychologist. We were all on the
alert. It appears incredible to me that any kind of trick, however
subtly conceived and however adroitly done, could have been played
upon us under these conditions.

The Time Traveller looked at us, and then at the mechanism. 'Well?'
said the Psychologist.

'This little affair,' said the Time Traveller, resting his elbows
upon the table and pressing his hands together above the apparatus,
'is only a model. It is my plan for a machine to travel through
time. You will notice that it looks singularly askew, and that there
is an odd twinkling appearance about this bar, as though it was in
some way unreal.' He pointed to the part with his finger. 'Also,
here is one little white lever, and here is another.'

The Medical Man got up out of his chair and peered into the thing.
'It's beautifully made,' he said.

'It took two years to make,' retorted the Time Traveller. Then, when
we had all imitated the action of the Medical Man, he said: 'Now I
want you clearly to understand that this lever, being pressed over,
sends the machine gliding into the future, and this other reverses
the motion. This saddle represents the seat of a time traveller.
Presently I am going to press the lever, and off the machine will
go. It will vanish, pass into future Time, and disappear. Have a
good look at the thing. Look at the table too, and satisfy
yourselves there is no trickery. I don't want to waste this model,
and then be told I'm a quack.'

There was a minute's pause perhaps. The Psychologist seemed about to
speak to me, but changed his mind. Then the Time Traveller put forth
his finger towards the lever. 'No,' he said suddenly. 'Lend me your
hand.' And turning to the Psychologist, he took that individual's
hand in his own and told him to put out his forefinger. So that it
was the Psychologist himself who sent forth the model Time Machine
on its interminable voyage. We all saw the lever turn. I am
absolutely certain there was no trickery. There was a breath of
wind, and the lamp flame jumped. One of the candles on the mantel
was blown out, and the little machine suddenly swung round, became
indistinct, was seen as a ghost for a second perhaps, as an eddy of
faintly glittering brass and ivory; and it was gone--vanished! Save
for the lamp the table was bare.

Everyone was silent for a minute. Then Filby said he was damned.

The Psychologist recovered from his stupor, and suddenly looked
under the table. At that the Time Traveller laughed cheerfully.
'Well?' he said, with a reminiscence of the Psychologist. Then,
getting up, he went to the tobacco jar on the mantel, and with his
back to us began to fill his pipe.

We stared at each other. 'Look here,' said the Medical Man, 'are you
in earnest about this? Do you seriously believe that that machine
has travelled into time?'

'Certainly,' said the Time Traveller, stooping to light a spill at
the fire. Then he turned, lighting his pipe, to look at the
Psychologist's face. (The Psychologist, to show that he was not
unhinged, helped himself to a cigar and tried to light it uncut.)
'What is more, I have a big machine nearly finished in there'--he
indicated the laboratory--'and when that is put together I mean to
have a journey on my own account.'

'You mean to say that that machine has travelled into the future?'
said Filby.

'Into the future or the past--I don't, for certain, know which.'

After an interval the Psychologist had an inspiration. 'It must have
gone into the past if it has gone anywhere,' he said.

'Why?' said the Time Traveller.

'Because I presume that it has not moved in space, and if it
travelled into the future it would still be here all this time,
since it must have travelled through this time.'

'But,' I said, 'If it travelled into the past it would have been
visible when we came first into this room; and last Thursday when we
were here; and the Thursday before that; and so forth!'

'Serious objections,' remarked the Provincial Mayor, with an air of
impartiality, turning towards the Time Traveller.

'Not a bit,' said the Time Traveller, and, to the Psychologist: 'You
think. You can explain that. It's presentation below the threshold,
you know, diluted presentation.'

'Of course,' said the Psychologist, and reassured us. 'That's a
simple point of psychology. I should have thought of it. It's plain
enough, and helps the paradox delightfully. We cannot see it, nor
can we appreciate this machine, any more than we can the spoke of
a wheel spinning, or a bullet flying through the air. If it is
travelling through time fifty times or a hundred times faster than
we are, if it gets through a minute while we get through a second,
the impression it creates will of course be only one-fiftieth or
one-hundredth of what it would make if it were not travelling in
time. That's plain enough.' He passed his hand through the space in
which the machine had been. 'You see?' he said, laughing.

We sat and stared at the vacant table for a minute or so. Then the
Time Traveller asked us what we thought of it all.

'It sounds plausible enough to-night,' said the Medical Man; 'but
wait until to-morrow. Wait for the common sense of the morning.'

'Would you like to see the Time Machine itself?' asked the Time
Traveller. And therewith, taking the lamp in his hand, he led the
way down the long, draughty corridor to his laboratory. I remember
vividly the flickering light, his queer, broad head in silhouette,
the dance of the shadows, how we all followed him, puzzled but
incredulous, and how there in the laboratory we beheld a larger
edition of the little mechanism which we had seen vanish from before
our eyes. Parts were of nickel, parts of ivory, parts had certainly
been filed or sawn out of rock crystal. The thing was generally
complete, but the twisted crystalline bars lay unfinished upon the
bench beside some sheets of drawings, and I took one up for a better
look at it. Quartz it seemed to be.

'Look here,' said the Medical Man, 'are you perfectly serious?
Or is this a trick--like that ghost you showed us last Christmas?'

'Upon that machine,' said the Time Traveller, holding the lamp
aloft, 'I intend to explore time. Is that plain? I was never more
serious in my life.'

None of us quite knew how to take it.

I caught Filby's eye over the shoulder of the Medical Man, and he
winked at me solemnly.




II


I think that at that time none of us quite believed in the Time
Machine. The fact is, the Time Traveller was one of those men who
are too clever to be believed: you never felt that you saw all round
him; you always suspected some subtle reserve, some ingenuity in
ambush, behind his lucid frankness. Had Filby shown the model and
explained the matter in the Time Traveller's words, we should have
shown _him_ far less scepticism. For we should have perceived his
motives; a pork butcher could understand Filby. But the Time
Traveller had more than a touch of whim among his elements, and we
distrusted him. Things that would have made the frame of a less
clever man seemed tricks in his hands. It is a mistake to do things
too easily. The serious people who took him seriously never felt
quite sure of his deportment; they were somehow aware that trusting
their reputations for judgment with him was like furnishing a
nursery with egg-shell china. So I don't think any of us said very
much about time travelling in the interval between that Thursday and
the next, though its odd potentialities ran, no doubt, in most of
our minds: its plausibility, that is, its practical incredibleness,
the curious possibilities of anachronism and of utter confusion it
suggested. For my own part, I was particularly preoccupied with the
trick of the model. That I remember discussing with the Medical Man,
whom I met on Friday at the Linnaean. He said he had seen a similar
thing at Tubingen, and laid considerable stress on the blowing out
of the candle. But how the trick was done he could not explain.

The next Thursday I went again to Richmond--I suppose I was one of
the Time Traveller's most constant guests--and, arriving late, found
four or five men already assembled in his drawing-room. The Medical
Man was standing before the fire with a sheet of paper in one hand
and his watch in the other. I looked round for the Time Traveller,
and--'It's half-past seven now,' said the Medical Man. 'I suppose
we'd better have dinner?'

'Where's----?' said I, naming our host.

'You've just come? It's rather odd. He's unavoidably detained. He
asks me in this note to lead off with dinner at seven if he's not
back. Says he'll explain when he comes.'

'It seems a pity to let the dinner spoil,' said the Editor of a
well-known daily paper; and thereupon the Doctor rang the bell.

The Psychologist was the only person besides the Doctor and myself
who had attended the previous dinner. The other men were Blank, the
Editor aforementioned, a certain journalist, and another--a quiet,
shy man with a beard--whom I didn't know, and who, as far as my
observation went, never opened his mouth all the evening. There was
some speculation at the dinner-table about the Time Traveller's
absence, and I suggested time travelling, in a half-jocular spirit.
The Editor wanted that explained to him, and the Psychologist
volunteered a wooden account of the 'ingenious paradox and trick' we
had witnessed that day week. He was in the midst of his exposition
when the door from the corridor opened slowly and without noise. I
was facing the door, and saw it first. 'Hallo!' I said. 'At last!'
And the door opened wider, and the Time Traveller stood before us.
I gave a cry of surprise. 'Good heavens! man, what's the matter?'
cried the Medical Man, who saw him next. And the whole tableful
turned towards the door.

He was in an amazing plight. His coat was dusty and dirty, and
smeared with green down the sleeves; his hair disordered, and as it
seemed to me greyer--either with dust and dirt or because its colour
had actually faded. His face was ghastly pale; his chin had a brown
cut on it--a cut half healed; his expression was haggard and drawn,
as by intense suffering. For a moment he hesitated in the doorway,
as if he had been dazzled by the light. Then he came into the room.
He walked with just such a limp as I have seen in footsore tramps.
We stared at him in silence, expecting him to speak.

He said not a word, but came painfully to the table, and made a
motion towards the wine. The Editor filled a glass of champagne, and
pushed it towards him. He drained it, and it seemed to do him good:
for he looked round the table, and the ghost of his old smile
flickered across his face. 'What on earth have you been up to, man?'
said the Doctor. The Time Traveller did not seem to hear. 'Don't let
me disturb you,' he said, with a certain faltering articulation.
'I'm all right.' He stopped, held out his glass for more, and took
it off at a draught. 'That's good,' he said. His eyes grew brighter,
and a faint colour came into his cheeks. His glance flickered over
our faces with a certain dull approval, and then went round the warm
and comfortable room. Then he spoke again, still as it were feeling
his way among his words. 'I'm going to wash and dress, and then I'll
come down and explain things ... Save me some of that mutton. I'm
starving for a bit of meat.'

He looked across at the Editor, who was a rare visitor, and hoped he
was all right. The Editor began a question. 'Tell you presently,'
said the Time Traveller. 'I'm--funny! Be all right in a minute.'

He put down his glass, and walked towards the staircase door. Again
I remarked his lameness and the soft padding sound of his footfall,
and standing up in my place, I saw his feet as he went out. He had
nothing on them but a pair of tattered, blood-stained socks. Then the
door closed upon him. I had half a mind to follow, till I remembered
how he detested any fuss about himself. For a minute, perhaps, my
mind was wool-gathering. Then, 'Remarkable Behaviour of an Eminent
Scientist,' I heard the Editor say, thinking (after his wont) in
headlines. And this brought my attention back to the bright
dinner-table.

'What's the game?' said the Journalist. 'Has he been doing the
Amateur Cadger? I don't follow.' I met the eye of the Psychologist,
and read my own interpretation in his face. I thought of the Time
Traveller limping painfully upstairs. I don't think any one else had
noticed his lameness.

The first to recover completely from this surprise was the Medical
Man, who rang the bell--the Time Traveller hated to have servants
waiting at dinner--for a hot plate. At that the Editor turned to his
knife and fork with a grunt, and the Silent Man followed suit. The
dinner was resumed. Conversation was exclamatory for a little while,
with gaps of wonderment; and then the Editor got fervent in his
curiosity. 'Does our friend eke out his modest income with a
crossing? or has he his Nebuchadnezzar phases?' he inquired. 'I feel
assured it's this business of the Time Machine,' I said, and took up
the Psychologist's account of our previous meeting. The new guests
were frankly incredulous. The Editor raised objections. 'What _was_
this time travelling? A man couldn't cover himself with dust by
rolling in a paradox, could he?' And then, as the idea came home to
him, he resorted to caricature. Hadn't they any clothes-brushes in
the Future? The Journalist too, would not believe at any price, and
joined the Editor in the easy work of heaping ridicule on the whole
thing. They were both the new kind of journalist--very joyous,
irreverent young men. 'Our Special Correspondent in the Day
after To-morrow reports,' the Journalist was saying--or rather
shouting--when the Time Traveller came back. He was dressed in
ordinary evening clothes, and nothing save his haggard look remained
of the change that had startled me.

'I say,' said the Editor hilariously, 'these chaps here say you have
been travelling into the middle of next week! Tell us all about
little Rosebery, will you? What will you take for the lot?'

The Time Traveller came to the place reserved for him without a
word. He smiled quietly, in his old way. 'Where's my mutton?' he
said. 'What a treat it is to stick a fork into meat again!'

'Story!' cried the Editor.

'Story be damned!' said the Time Traveller. 'I want something to
eat. I won't say a word until I get some peptone into my arteries.
Thanks. And the salt.'

'One word,' said I. 'Have you been time travelling?'

'Yes,' said the Time Traveller, with his mouth full, nodding his
head.

'I'd give a shilling a line for a verbatim note,' said the Editor.
The Time Traveller pushed his glass towards the Silent Man and rang
it with his fingernail; at which the Silent Man, who had been
staring at his face, started convulsively, and poured him wine.
The rest of the dinner was uncomfortable. For my own part, sudden
questions kept on rising to my lips, and I dare say it was the same
with the others. The Journalist tried to relieve the tension by
telling anecdotes of Hettie Potter. The Time Traveller devoted his
attention to his dinner, and displayed the appetite of a tramp.
The Medical Man smoked a cigarette, and watched the Time Traveller
through his eyelashes. The Silent Man seemed even more clumsy than
usual, and drank champagne with regularity and determination out of
sheer nervousness. At last the Time Traveller pushed his plate away,
and looked round us. 'I suppose I must apologize,' he said. 'I was
simply starving. I've had a most amazing time.' He reached out his
hand for a cigar, and cut the end. 'But come into the smoking-room.
It's too long a story to tell over greasy plates.' And ringing the
bell in passing, he led the way into the adjoining room.

'You have told Blank, and Dash, and Chose about the machine?' he
said to me, leaning back in his easy-chair and naming the three new
guests.

'But the thing's a mere paradox,' said the Editor.

'I can't argue to-night. I don't mind telling you the story, but
I can't argue. I will,' he went on, 'tell you the story of what
has happened to me, if you like, but you must refrain from
interruptions. I want to tell it. Badly. Most of it will sound like
lying. So be it! It's true--every word of it, all the same. I was in
my laboratory at four o'clock, and since then ... I've lived eight
days ... such days as no human being ever lived before! I'm nearly
worn out, but I shan't sleep till I've told this thing over to you.
Then I shall go to bed. But no interruptions! Is it agreed?'

'Agreed,' said the Editor, and the rest of us echoed 'Agreed.' And
with that the Time Traveller began his story as I have set it forth.
He sat back in his chair at first, and spoke like a weary man.
Afterwards he got more animated. In writing it down I feel with only
too much keenness the inadequacy of pen and ink--and, above all, my
own inadequacy--to express its quality. You read, I will suppose,
attentively enough; but you cannot see the speaker's white,
sincere face in the bright circle of the little lamp, nor hear the
intonation of his voice. You cannot know how his expression followed
the turns of his story! Most of us hearers were in shadow, for the
candles in the smoking-room had not been lighted, and only the face
of the Journalist and the legs of the Silent Man from the knees
downward were illuminated. At first we glanced now and again at each
other. After a time we ceased to do that, and looked only at the
Time Traveller's face.




III


'I told some of you last Thursday of the principles of the Time
Machine, and showed you the actual thing itself, incomplete in the
workshop. There it is now, a little travel-worn, truly; and one of
the ivory bars is cracked, and a brass rail bent; but the rest of
it's sound enough. I expected to finish it on Friday, but on Friday,
when the putting together was nearly done, I found that one of the
nickel bars was exactly one inch too short, and this I had to get
remade; so that the thing was not complete until this morning. It
was at ten o'clock to-day that the first of all Time Machines began
its career. I gave it a last tap, tried all the screws again, put
one more drop of oil on the quartz rod, and sat myself in the
saddle. I suppose a suicide who holds a pistol to his skull feels
much the same wonder at what will come next as I felt then. I took
the starting lever in one hand and the stopping one in the other,
pressed the first, and almost immediately the second. I seemed to
reel; I felt a nightmare sensation of falling; and, looking round,
I saw the laboratory exactly as before. Had anything happened? For
a moment I suspected that my intellect had tricked me. Then I noted
the clock. A moment before, as it seemed, it had stood at a minute
or so past ten; now it was nearly half-past three!

'I drew a breath, set my teeth, gripped the starting lever with both
hands, and went off with a thud. The laboratory got hazy and went
dark. Mrs. Watchett came in and walked, apparently without seeing
me, towards the garden door. I suppose it took her a minute or so to
traverse the place, but to me she seemed to shoot across the room
like a rocket. I pressed the lever over to its extreme position. The
night came like the turning out of a lamp, and in another moment
came to-morrow. The laboratory grew faint and hazy, then fainter
and ever fainter. To-morrow night came black, then day again, night
again, day again, faster and faster still. An eddying murmur filled
my ears, and a strange, dumb confusedness descended on my mind.

'I am afraid I cannot convey the peculiar sensations of time
travelling. They are excessively unpleasant. There is a feeling
exactly like that one has upon a switchback--of a helpless headlong
motion! I felt the same horrible anticipation, too, of an imminent
smash. As I put on pace, night followed day like the flapping of a
black wing. The dim suggestion of the laboratory seemed presently to
fall away from me, and I saw the sun hopping swiftly across the sky,
leaping it every minute, and every minute marking a day. I supposed
the laboratory had been destroyed and I had come into the open air.
I had a dim impression of scaffolding, but I was already going too
fast to be conscious of any moving things. The slowest snail that
ever crawled dashed by too fast for me. The twinkling succession of
darkness and light was excessively painful to the eye. Then, in the
intermittent darknesses, I saw the moon spinning swiftly through her
quarters from new to full, and had a faint glimpse of the circling
stars. Presently, as I went on, still gaining velocity, the
palpitation of night and day merged into one continuous greyness;
the sky took on a wonderful deepness of blue, a splendid luminous
color like that of early twilight; the jerking sun became a streak
of fire, a brilliant arch, in space; the moon a fainter fluctuating
band; and I could see nothing of the stars, save now and then a
brighter circle flickering in the blue.

'The landscape was misty and vague. I was still on the hill-side
upon which this house now stands, and the shoulder rose above me
grey and dim. I saw trees growing and changing like puffs of vapour,
now brown, now green; they grew, spread, shivered, and passed away.
I saw huge buildings rise up faint and fair, and pass like dreams.
The whole surface of the earth seemed changed--melting and flowing
under my eyes. The little hands upon the dials that registered my
speed raced round faster and faster. Presently I noted that the sun
belt swayed up and down, from solstice to solstice, in a minute or
less, and that consequently my pace was over a year a minute; and
minute by minute the white snow flashed across the world, and
vanished, and was followed by the bright, brief green of spring.

'The unpleasant sensations of the start were less poignant now. They
merged at last into a kind of hysterical exhilaration. I remarked
indeed a clumsy swaying of the machine, for which I was unable to
account. But my mind was too confused to attend to it, so with a
kind of madness growing upon me, I flung myself into futurity. At
first I scarce thought of stopping, scarce thought of anything but
these new sensations. But presently a fresh series of impressions
grew up in my mind--a certain curiosity and therewith a certain
dread--until at last they took complete possession of me. What
strange developments of humanity, what wonderful advances upon our
rudimentary civilization, I thought, might not appear when I came to
look nearly into the dim elusive world that raced and fluctuated
before my eyes! I saw great and splendid architecture rising about
me, more massive than any buildings of our own time, and yet, as it
seemed, built of glimmer and mist. I saw a richer green flow up the
hill-side, and remain there, without any wintry intermission. Even
through the veil of my confusion the earth seemed very fair. And so
my mind came round to the business of stopping.

'The peculiar risk lay in the possibility of my finding some
substance in the space which I, or the machine, occupied. So long
as I travelled at a high velocity through time, this scarcely
mattered; I was, so to speak, attenuated--was slipping like a vapour
through the interstices of intervening substances! But to come to
a stop involved the jamming of myself, molecule by molecule, into
whatever lay in my way; meant bringing my atoms into such intimate
contact with those of the obstacle that a profound chemical
reaction--possibly a far-reaching explosion--would result, and blow
myself and my apparatus out of all possible dimensions--into the
Unknown. This possibility had occurred to me again and again while I
was making the machine; but then I had cheerfully accepted it as an
unavoidable risk--one of the risks a man has got to take! Now the
risk was inevitable, I no longer saw it in the same cheerful light.
The fact is that, insensibly, the absolute strangeness of everything,
the sickly jarring and swaying of the machine, above all, the
feeling of prolonged falling, had absolutely upset my nerve. I told
myself that I could never stop, and with a gust of petulance I
resolved to stop forthwith. Like an impatient fool, I lugged over
the lever, and incontinently the thing went reeling over, and I was
flung headlong through the air.

'There was the sound of a clap of thunder in my ears. I may have
been stunned for a moment. A pitiless hail was hissing round me,
and I was sitting on soft turf in front of the overset machine.
Everything still seemed grey, but presently I remarked that the
confusion in my ears was gone. I looked round me. I was on what
seemed to be a little lawn in a garden, surrounded by rhododendron
bushes, and I noticed that their mauve and purple blossoms were
dropping in a shower under the beating of the hail-stones. The
rebounding, dancing hail hung in a cloud over the machine, and drove
along the ground like smoke. In a moment I was wet to the skin.
"Fine hospitality," said I, "to a man who has travelled innumerable
years to see you."

'Presently I thought what a fool I was to get wet. I stood up and
looked round me. A colossal figure, carved apparently in some white
stone, loomed indistinctly beyond the rhododendrons through the hazy
downpour. But all else of the world was invisible.

'My sensations would be hard to describe. As the columns of hail
grew thinner, I saw the white figure more distinctly. It was very
large, for a silver birch-tree touched its shoulder. It was of white
marble, in shape something like a winged sphinx, but the wings,
instead of being carried vertically at the sides, were spread so
that it seemed to hover. The pedestal, it appeared to me, was of
bronze, and was thick with verdigris. It chanced that the face was
towards me; the sightless eyes seemed to watch me; there was the
faint shadow of a smile on the lips. It was greatly weather-worn,
and that imparted an unpleasant suggestion of disease. I stood
looking at it for a little space--half a minute, perhaps, or half an
hour. It seemed to advance and to recede as the hail drove before it
denser or thinner. At last I tore my eyes from it for a moment and
saw that the hail curtain had worn threadbare, and that the sky was
lightening with the promise of the sun.

'I looked up again at the crouching white shape, and the full
temerity of my voyage came suddenly upon me. What might appear when
that hazy curtain was altogether withdrawn? What might not have
happened to men? What if cruelty had grown into a common passion?
What if in this interval the race had lost its manliness and had
developed into something inhuman, unsympathetic, and overwhelmingly
powerful? I might seem some old-world savage animal, only the more
dreadful and disgusting for our common likeness--a foul creature to
be incontinently slain.

'Already I saw other vast shapes--huge buildings with intricate
parapets and tall columns, with a wooded hill-side dimly creeping
in upon me through the lessening storm. I was seized with a panic
fear. I turned frantically to the Time Machine, and strove hard to
readjust it. As I did so the shafts of the sun smote through the
thunderstorm. The grey downpour was swept aside and vanished like
the trailing garments of a ghost. Above me, in the intense blue
of the summer sky, some faint brown shreds of cloud whirled into
nothingness. The great buildings about me stood out clear and
distinct, shining with the wet of the thunderstorm, and picked out
in white by the unmelted hailstones piled along their courses. I
felt naked in a strange world. I felt as perhaps a bird may feel in
the clear air, knowing the hawk wings above and will swoop. My fear
grew to frenzy. I took a breathing space, set my teeth, and again
grappled fiercely, wrist and knee, with the machine. It gave under
my desperate onset and turned over. It struck my chin violently. One
hand on the saddle, the other on the lever, I stood panting heavily
in attitude to mount again.

'But with this recovery of a prompt retreat my courage recovered. I
looked more curiously and less fearfully at this world of the remote
future. In a circular opening, high up in the wall of the nearer
house, I saw a group of figures clad in rich soft robes. They had
seen me, and their faces were directed towards me.

'Then I heard voices approaching me. Coming through the bushes by
the White Sphinx were the heads and shoulders of men running. One of
these emerged in a pathway leading straight to the little lawn upon
which I stood with my machine. He was a slight creature--perhaps
four feet high--clad in a purple tunic, girdled at the waist with a
leather belt. Sandals or buskins--I could not clearly distinguish
which--were on his feet; his legs were bare to the knees, and his
head was bare. Noticing that, I noticed for the first time how warm
the air was.

'He struck me as being a very beautiful and graceful creature, but
indescribably frail. His flushed face reminded me of the more
beautiful kind of consumptive--that hectic beauty of which we used
to hear so much. At the sight of him I suddenly regained confidence.
I took my hands from the machine.




IV


'In another moment we were standing face to face, I and this fragile
thing out of futurity. He came straight up to me and laughed into my
eyes. The absence from his bearing of any sign of fear struck me at
once. Then he turned to the two others who were following him and
spoke to them in a strange and very sweet and liquid tongue.

'There were others coming, and presently a little group of perhaps
eight or ten of these exquisite creatures were about me. One of them
addressed me. It came into my head, oddly enough, that my voice was
too harsh and deep for them. So I shook my head, and, pointing to my
ears, shook it again. He came a step forward, hesitated, and then
touched my hand. Then I felt other soft little tentacles upon my
back and shoulders. They wanted to make sure I was real. There was
nothing in this at all alarming. Indeed, there was something in
these pretty little people that inspired confidence--a graceful
gentleness, a certain childlike ease. And besides, they looked so
frail that I could fancy myself flinging the whole dozen of them
about like nine-pins. But I made a sudden motion to warn them when I
saw their little pink hands feeling at the Time Machine. Happily
then, when it was not too late, I thought of a danger I had hitherto
forgotten, and reaching over the bars of the machine I unscrewed the
little levers that would set it in motion, and put these in my
pocket. Then I turned again to see what I could do in the way of
communication.

'And then, looking more nearly into their features, I saw some
further peculiarities in their Dresden-china type of prettiness.
Their hair, which was uniformly curly, came to a sharp end at the
neck and cheek; there was not the faintest suggestion of it on the
face, and their ears were singularly minute. The mouths were small,
with bright red, rather thin lips, and the little chins ran to a
point. The eyes were large and mild; and--this may seem egotism on
my part--I fancied even that there was a certain lack of the
interest I might have expected in them.

'As they made no effort to communicate with me, but simply stood
round me smiling and speaking in soft cooing notes to each other, I
began the conversation. I pointed to the Time Machine and to myself.
Then hesitating for a moment how to express time, I pointed to the
sun. At once a quaintly pretty little figure in chequered purple and
white followed my gesture, and then astonished me by imitating the
sound of thunder.

'For a moment I was staggered, though the import of his gesture was
plain enough. The question had come into my mind abruptly: were
these creatures fools? You may hardly understand how it took me.
You see I had always anticipated that the people of the year Eight
Hundred and Two Thousand odd would be incredibly in front of us in
knowledge, art, everything. Then one of them suddenly asked me a
question that showed him to be on the intellectual level of one of
our five-year-old children--asked me, in fact, if I had come from
the sun in a thunderstorm! It let loose the judgment I had suspended
upon their clothes, their frail light limbs, and fragile features.
A flow of disappointment rushed across my mind. For a moment I felt
that I had built the Time Machine in vain.

'I nodded, pointed to the sun, and gave them such a vivid rendering
of a thunderclap as startled them. They all withdrew a pace or so
and bowed. Then came one laughing towards me, carrying a chain of
beautiful flowers altogether new to me, and put it about my neck.
The idea was received with melodious applause; and presently they
were all running to and fro for flowers, and laughingly flinging
them upon me until I was almost smothered with blossom. You who
have never seen the like can scarcely imagine what delicate and
wonderful flowers countless years of culture had created. Then
someone suggested that their plaything should be exhibited in the
nearest building, and so I was led past the sphinx of white marble,
which had seemed to watch me all the while with a smile at my
astonishment, towards a vast grey edifice of fretted stone. As I
went with them the memory of my confident anticipations of a
profoundly grave and intellectual posterity came, with irresistible
merriment, to my mind.

'The building had a huge entry, and was altogether of colossal
dimensions. I was naturally most occupied with the growing crowd of
little people, and with the big open portals that yawned before me
shadowy and mysterious. My general impression of the world I saw
over their heads was a tangled waste of beautiful bushes and
flowers, a long neglected and yet weedless garden. I saw a number
of tall spikes of strange white flowers, measuring a foot perhaps
across the spread of the waxen petals. They grew scattered, as if
wild, among the variegated shrubs, but, as I say, I did not examine
them closely at this time. The Time Machine was left deserted on the
turf among the rhododendrons.

'The arch of the doorway was richly carved, but naturally I did
not observe the carving very narrowly, though I fancied I saw
suggestions of old Phoenician decorations as I passed through, and
it struck me that they were very badly broken and weather-worn.
Several more brightly clad people met me in the doorway, and so we
entered, I, dressed in dingy nineteenth-century garments, looking
grotesque enough, garlanded with flowers, and surrounded by an
eddying mass of bright, soft-colored robes and shining white limbs,
in a melodious whirl of laughter and laughing speech.

'The big doorway opened into a proportionately great hall hung with
brown. The roof was in shadow, and the windows, partially glazed
with coloured glass and partially unglazed, admitted a tempered
light. The floor was made up of huge blocks of some very hard white
metal, not plates nor slabs--blocks, and it was so much worn, as I
judged by the going to and fro of past generations, as to be deeply
channelled along the more frequented ways. Transverse to the length
were innumerable tables made of slabs of polished stone, raised
perhaps a foot from the floor, and upon these were heaps of fruits.
Some I recognized as a kind of hypertrophied raspberry and orange,
but for the most part they were strange.

'Between the tables was scattered a great number of cushions.
Upon these my conductors seated themselves, signing for me to do
likewise. With a pretty absence of ceremony they began to eat the
fruit with their hands, flinging peel and stalks, and so forth, into
the round openings in the sides of the tables. I was not loath to
follow their example, for I felt thirsty and hungry. As I did so I
surveyed the hall at my leisure.

'And perhaps the thing that struck me most was its dilapidated look.
The stained-glass windows, which displayed only a geometrical
pattern, were broken in many places, and the curtains that hung
across the lower end were thick with dust. And it caught my eye that
the corner of the marble table near me was fractured. Nevertheless,
the general effect was extremely rich and picturesque. There were,
perhaps, a couple of hundred people dining in the hall, and most of
them, seated as near to me as they could come, were watching me with
interest, their little eyes shining over the fruit they were eating.
All were clad in the same soft and yet strong, silky material.

'Fruit, by the by, was all their diet. These people of the remote
future were strict vegetarians, and while I was with them, in spite
of some carnal cravings, I had to be frugivorous also. Indeed, I
found afterwards that horses, cattle, sheep, dogs, had followed the
Ichthyosaurus into extinction. But the fruits were very delightful;
one, in particular, that seemed to be in season all the time I was
there--a floury thing in a three-sided husk--was especially good,
and I made it my staple. At first I was puzzled by all these strange
fruits, and by the strange flowers I saw, but later I began to
perceive their import.

'However, I am telling you of my fruit dinner in the distant future
now. So soon as my appetite was a little checked, I determined to
make a resolute attempt to learn the speech of these new men of
mine. Clearly that was the next thing to do. The fruits seemed a
convenient thing to begin upon, and holding one of these up I began
a series of interrogative sounds and gestures. I had some
considerable difficulty in conveying my meaning. At first my efforts
met with a stare of surprise or inextinguishable laughter, but
presently a fair-haired little creature seemed to grasp my intention
and repeated a name. They had to chatter and explain the business
at great length to each other, and my first attempts to make the
exquisite little sounds of their language caused an immense amount
of amusement. However, I felt like a schoolmaster amidst children,
and persisted, and presently I had a score of noun substantives at
least at my command; and then I got to demonstrative pronouns, and
even the verb "to eat." But it was slow work, and the little people
soon tired and wanted to get away from my interrogations, so I
determined, rather of necessity, to let them give their lessons in
little doses when they felt inclined. And very little doses I found
they were before long, for I never met people more indolent or more
easily fatigued.

'A queer thing I soon discovered about my little hosts, and that was
their lack of interest. They would come to me with eager cries of
astonishment, like children, but like children they would soon stop
examining me and wander away after some other toy. The dinner and my
conversational beginnings ended, I noted for the first time that
almost all those who had surrounded me at first were gone. It is
odd, too, how speedily I came to disregard these little people. I
went out through the portal into the sunlit world again as soon as
my hunger was satisfied. I was continually meeting more of these men
of the future, who would follow me a little distance, chatter and
laugh about me, and, having smiled and gesticulated in a friendly
way, leave me again to my own devices.

'The calm of evening was upon the world as I emerged from the great
hall, and the scene was lit by the warm glow of the setting sun.
At first things were very confusing. Everything was so entirely
different from the world I had known--even the flowers. The big
building I had left was situated on the slope of a broad river
valley, but the Thames had shifted perhaps a mile from its present
position. I resolved to mount to the summit of a crest, perhaps a
mile and a half away, from which I could get a wider view of this
our planet in the year Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred
and One A.D. For that, I should explain, was the date the little
dials of my machine recorded.

'As I walked I was watching for every impression that could possibly
help to explain the condition of ruinous splendour in which I
found the world--for ruinous it was. A little way up the hill, for
instance, was a great heap of granite, bound together by masses of
aluminium, a vast labyrinth of precipitous walls and crumpled
heaps, amidst which were thick heaps of very beautiful pagoda-like
plants--nettles possibly--but wonderfully tinted with brown about
the leaves, and incapable of stinging. It was evidently the derelict
remains of some vast structure, to what end built I could not
determine. It was here that I was destined, at a later date, to have
a very strange experience--the first intimation of a still stranger
discovery--but of that I will speak in its proper place.

'Looking round with a sudden thought, from a terrace on which I
rested for a while, I realized that there were no small houses to be
seen. Apparently the single house, and possibly even the household,
had vanished. Here and there among the greenery were palace-like
buildings, but the house and the cottage, which form such
characteristic features of our own English landscape, had
disappeared.

'"Communism," said I to myself.

'And on the heels of that came another thought. I looked at the
half-dozen little figures that were following me. Then, in a flash,
I perceived that all had the same form of costume, the same soft
hairless visage, and the same girlish rotundity of limb. It may seem
strange, perhaps, that I had not noticed this before. But everything
was so strange. Now, I saw the fact plainly enough. In costume, and
in all the differences of texture and bearing that now mark off the
sexes from each other, these people of the future were alike. And
the children seemed to my eyes to be but the miniatures of their
parents. I judged, then, that the children of that time were
extremely precocious, physically at least, and I found afterwards
abundant verification of my opinion.

'Seeing the ease and security in which these people were living, I
felt that this close resemblance of the sexes was after all what
one would expect; for the strength of a man and the softness of a
woman, the institution of the family, and the differentiation of
occupations are mere militant necessities of an age of physical
force; where population is balanced and abundant, much childbearing
becomes an evil rather than a blessing to the State; where
violence comes but rarely and off-spring are secure, there is less
necessity--indeed there is no necessity--for an efficient family,
and the specialization of the sexes with reference to their
children's needs disappears. We see some beginnings of this even
in our own time, and in this future age it was complete. This, I
must remind you, was my speculation at the time. Later, I was to
appreciate how far it fell short of the reality.

'While I was musing upon these things, my attention was attracted by
a pretty little structure, like a well under a cupola. I thought in
a transitory way of the oddness of wells still existing, and then
resumed the thread of my speculations. There were no large buildings
towards the top of the hill, and as my walking powers were evidently
miraculous, I was presently left alone for the first time. With a
strange sense of freedom and adventure I pushed on up to the crest.

'There I found a seat of some yellow metal that I did not recognize,
corroded in places with a kind of pinkish rust and half smothered
in soft moss, the arm-rests cast and filed into the resemblance of
griffins' heads. I sat down on it, and I surveyed the broad view of
our old world under the sunset of that long day. It was as sweet and
fair a view as I have ever seen. The sun had already gone below the
horizon and the west was flaming gold, touched with some horizontal
bars of purple and crimson. Below was the valley of the Thames, in
which the river lay like a band of burnished steel. I have already
spoken of the great palaces dotted about among the variegated
greenery, some in ruins and some still occupied. Here and there rose
a white or silvery figure in the waste garden of the earth, here and
there came the sharp vertical line of some cupola or obelisk. There
were no hedges, no signs of proprietary rights, no evidences of
agriculture; the whole earth had become a garden.

'So watching, I began to put my interpretation upon the things I had
seen, and as it shaped itself to me that evening, my interpretation
was something in this way. (Afterwards I found I had got only a
half-truth--or only a glimpse of one facet of the truth.)

'It seemed to me that I had happened upon humanity upon the wane.
The ruddy sunset set me thinking of the sunset of mankind. For the
first time I began to realize an odd consequence of the social
effort in which we are at present engaged. And yet, come to think,
it is a logical consequence enough. Strength is the outcome of need;
security sets a premium on feebleness. The work of ameliorating the
conditions of life--the true civilizing process that makes life more
and more secure--had gone steadily on to a climax. One triumph of a
united humanity over Nature had followed another. Things that are
now mere dreams had become projects deliberately put in hand and
carried forward. And the harvest was what I saw!

'After all, the sanitation and the agriculture of to-day are still
in the rudimentary stage. The science of our time has attacked but
a little department of the field of human disease, but even so,
it spreads its operations very steadily and persistently. Our
agriculture and horticulture destroy a weed just here and there and
cultivate perhaps a score or so of wholesome plants, leaving the
greater number to fight out a balance as they can. We improve our
favourite plants and animals--and how few they are--gradually by
selective breeding; now a new and better peach, now a seedless
grape, now a sweeter and larger flower, now a more convenient breed
of cattle. We improve them gradually, because our ideals are vague
and tentative, and our knowledge is very limited; because Nature,
too, is shy and slow in our clumsy hands. Some day all this will
be better organized, and still better. That is the drift of the
current in spite of the eddies. The whole world will be intelligent,
educated, and co-operating; things will move faster and faster
towards the subjugation of Nature. In the end, wisely and carefully
we shall readjust the balance of animal and vegetable life to suit
our human needs.

'This adjustment, I say, must have been done, and done well; done
indeed for all Time, in the space of Time across which my machine
had leaped. The air was free from gnats, the earth from weeds or
fungi; everywhere were fruits and sweet and delightful flowers;
brilliant butterflies flew hither and thither. The ideal of
preventive medicine was attained. Diseases had been stamped out. I
saw no evidence of any contagious diseases during all my stay. And I
shall have to tell you later that even the processes of putrefaction
and decay had been profoundly affected by these changes.

'Social triumphs, too, had been effected. I saw mankind housed in
splendid shelters, gloriously clothed, and as yet I had found them
engaged in no toil. There were no signs of struggle, neither social
nor economical struggle. The shop, the advertisement, traffic, all
that commerce which constitutes the body of our world, was gone. It
was natural on that golden evening that I should jump at the idea of
a social paradise. The difficulty of increasing population had been
met, I guessed, and population had ceased to increase.

'But with this change in condition comes inevitably adaptations to
the change. What, unless biological science is a mass of errors, is
the cause of human intelligence and vigour? Hardship and freedom:
conditions under which the active, strong, and subtle survive and
the weaker go to the wall; conditions that put a premium upon the
loyal alliance of capable men, upon self-restraint, patience, and
decision. And the institution of the family, and the emotions that
arise therein, the fierce jealousy, the tenderness for offspring,
parental self-devotion, all found their justification and support in
the imminent dangers of the young. _Now_, where are these imminent
dangers? There is a sentiment arising, and it will grow, against
connubial jealousy, against fierce maternity, against passion
of all sorts; unnecessary things now, and things that make us
uncomfortable, savage survivals, discords in a refined and pleasant
life.

'I thought of the physical slightness of the people, their lack of
intelligence, and those big abundant ruins, and it strengthened my
belief in a perfect conquest of Nature. For after the battle comes
Quiet. Humanity had been strong, energetic, and intelligent, and had
used all its abundant vitality to alter the conditions under which
it lived. And now came the reaction of the altered conditions.

'Under the new conditions of perfect comfort and security, that
restless energy, that with us is strength, would become weakness.
Even in our own time certain tendencies and desires, once necessary
to survival, are a constant source of failure. Physical courage and
the love of battle, for instance, are no great help--may even be
hindrances--to a civilized man. And in a state of physical balance
and security, power, intellectual as well as physical, would be out
of place. For countless years I judged there had been no danger of
war or solitary violence, no danger from wild beasts, no wasting
disease to require strength of constitution, no need of toil. For
such a life, what we should call the weak are as well equipped as
the strong, are indeed no longer weak. Better equipped indeed they
are, for the strong would be fretted by an energy for which there
was no outlet. No doubt the exquisite beauty of the buildings I saw
was the outcome of the last surgings of the now purposeless energy
of mankind before it settled down into perfect harmony with the
conditions under which it lived--the flourish of that triumph which
began the last great peace. This has ever been the fate of energy in
security; it takes to art and to eroticism, and then come languor
and decay.

'Even this artistic impetus would at last die away--had almost died
in the Time I saw. To adorn themselves with flowers, to dance, to
sing in the sunlight: so much was left of the artistic spirit, and
no more. Even that would fade in the end into a contented
inactivity. We are kept keen on the grindstone of pain and
necessity, and, it seemed to me, that here was that hateful
grindstone broken at last!

'As I stood there in the gathering dark I thought that in this
simple explanation I had mastered the problem of the world--mastered
the whole secret of these delicious people. Possibly the checks they
had devised for the increase of population had succeeded too well,
and their numbers had rather diminished than kept stationary.
That would account for the abandoned ruins. Very simple was my
explanation, and plausible enough--as most wrong theories are!




V


'As I stood there musing over this too perfect triumph of man, the
full moon, yellow and gibbous, came up out of an overflow of silver
light in the north-east. The bright little figures ceased to move
about below, a noiseless owl flitted by, and I shivered with the
chill of the night. I determined to descend and find where I could
sleep.

'I looked for the building I knew. Then my eye travelled along to
the figure of the White Sphinx upon the pedestal of bronze, growing
distinct as the light of the rising moon grew brighter. I could see
the silver birch against it. There was the tangle of rhododendron
bushes, black in the pale light, and there was the little lawn.
I looked at the lawn again. A queer doubt chilled my complacency.
"No," said I stoutly to myself, "that was not the lawn."

'But it _was_ the lawn. For the white leprous face of the sphinx was
towards it. Can you imagine what I felt as this conviction came
home to me? But you cannot. The Time Machine was gone!

'At once, like a lash across the face, came the possibility of
losing my own age, of being left helpless in this strange new world.
The bare thought of it was an actual physical sensation. I could
feel it grip me at the throat and stop my breathing. In another
moment I was in a passion of fear and running with great leaping
strides down the slope. Once I fell headlong and cut my face; I lost
no time in stanching the blood, but jumped up and ran on, with a
warm trickle down my cheek and chin. All the time I ran I was saying
to myself: "They have moved it a little, pushed it under the bushes
out of the way." Nevertheless, I ran with all my might. All the
time, with the certainty that sometimes comes with excessive dread,
I knew that such assurance was folly, knew instinctively that the
machine was removed out of my reach. My breath came with pain. I
suppose I covered the whole distance from the hill crest to the
little lawn, two miles perhaps, in ten minutes. And I am not a young
man. I cursed aloud, as I ran, at my confident folly in leaving the
machine, wasting good breath thereby. I cried aloud, and none
answered. Not a creature seemed to be stirring in that moonlit
world.

'When I reached the lawn my worst fears were realized. Not a trace
of the thing was to be seen. I felt faint and cold when I faced the
empty space among the black tangle of bushes. I ran round it
furiously, as if the thing might be hidden in a corner, and then
stopped abruptly, with my hands clutching my hair. Above me towered
the sphinx, upon the bronze pedestal, white, shining, leprous, in
the light of the rising moon. It seemed to smile in mockery of my
dismay.

'I might have consoled myself by imagining the little people had put
the mechanism in some shelter for me, had I not felt assured of
their physical and intellectual inadequacy. That is what dismayed
me: the sense of some hitherto unsuspected power, through whose
intervention my invention had vanished. Yet, for one thing I felt
assured: unless some other age had produced its exact duplicate,
the machine could not have moved in time. The attachment of the
levers--I will show you the method later--prevented any one from
tampering with it in that way when they were removed. It had moved,
and was hid, only in space. But then, where could it be?

'I think I must have had a kind of frenzy. I remember running
violently in and out among the moonlit bushes all round the sphinx,
and startling some white animal that, in the dim light, I took for a
small deer. I remember, too, late that night, beating the bushes
with my clenched fist until my knuckles were gashed and bleeding
from the broken twigs. Then, sobbing and raving in my anguish of
mind, I went down to the great building of stone. The big hall was
dark, silent, and deserted. I slipped on the uneven floor, and fell
over one of the malachite tables, almost breaking my shin. I lit a
match and went on past the dusty curtains, of which I have told you.

'There I found a second great hall covered with cushions, upon
which, perhaps, a score or so of the little people were sleeping. I
have no doubt they found my second appearance strange enough, coming
suddenly out of the quiet darkness with inarticulate noises and the
splutter and flare of a match. For they had forgotten about matches.
"Where is my Time Machine?" I began, bawling like an angry child,
laying hands upon them and shaking them up together. It must have
been very queer to them. Some laughed, most of them looked sorely
frightened. When I saw them standing round me, it came into my head
that I was doing as foolish a thing as it was possible for me to do
under the circumstances, in trying to revive the sensation of fear.
For, reasoning from their daylight behaviour, I thought that fear
must be forgotten.

'Abruptly, I dashed down the match, and, knocking one of the people
over in my course, went blundering across the big dining-hall again,
out under the moonlight. I heard cries of terror and their little
feet running and stumbling this way and that. I do not remember all
I did as the moon crept up the sky. I suppose it was the unexpected
nature of my loss that maddened me. I felt hopelessly cut off from
my own kind--a strange animal in an unknown world. I must have raved
to and fro, screaming and crying upon God and Fate. I have a memory
of horrible fatigue, as the long night of despair wore away; of
looking in this impossible place and that; of groping among moon-lit
ruins and touching strange creatures in the black shadows; at last,
of lying on the ground near the sphinx and weeping with absolute
wretchedness. I had nothing left but misery. Then I slept, and when
I woke again it was full day, and a couple of sparrows were hopping
round me on the turf within reach of my arm.

'I sat up in the freshness of the morning, trying to remember how
I had got there, and why I had such a profound sense of desertion
and despair. Then things came clear in my mind. With the plain,
reasonable daylight, I could look my circumstances fairly in the
face. I saw the wild folly of my frenzy overnight, and I could
reason with myself. "Suppose the worst?" I said. "Suppose the
machine altogether lost--perhaps destroyed? It behoves me to be
calm and patient, to learn the way of the people, to get a clear
idea of the method of my loss, and the means of getting materials
and tools; so that in the end, perhaps, I may make another." That
would be my only hope, perhaps, but better than despair. And, after
all, it was a beautiful and curious world.

'But probably, the machine had only been taken away. Still, I must
be calm and patient, find its hiding-place, and recover it by force
or cunning. And with that I scrambled to my feet and looked about
me, wondering where I could bathe. I felt weary, stiff, and
travel-soiled. The freshness of the morning made me desire an equal
freshness. I had exhausted my emotion. Indeed, as I went about
my business, I found myself wondering at my intense excitement
overnight. I made a careful examination of the ground about the
little lawn. I wasted some time in futile questionings, conveyed, as
well as I was able, to such of the little people as came by. They
all failed to understand my gestures; some were simply stolid, some
thought it was a jest and laughed at me. I had the hardest task in
the world to keep my hands off their pretty laughing faces. It was
a foolish impulse, but the devil begotten of fear and blind anger
was ill curbed and still eager to take advantage of my perplexity.
The turf gave better counsel. I found a groove ripped in it, about
midway between the pedestal of the sphinx and the marks of my feet
where, on arrival, I had struggled with the overturned machine.
There were other signs of removal about, with queer narrow
footprints like those I could imagine made by a sloth. This directed
my closer attention to the pedestal. It was, as I think I have said,
of bronze. It was not a mere block, but highly decorated with deep
framed panels on either side. I went and rapped at these. The
pedestal was hollow. Examining the panels with care I found them
discontinuous with the frames. There were no handles or keyholes,
but possibly the panels, if they were doors, as I supposed, opened
from within. One thing was clear enough to my mind. It took no very
great mental effort to infer that my Time Machine was inside that
pedestal. But how it got there was a different problem.

'I saw the heads of two orange-clad people coming through the bushes
and under some blossom-covered apple-trees towards me. I turned
smiling to them and beckoned them to me. They came, and then,
pointing to the bronze pedestal, I tried to intimate my wish to open
it. But at my first gesture towards this they behaved very oddly. I
don't know how to convey their expression to you. Suppose you were
to use a grossly improper gesture to a delicate-minded woman--it is
how she would look. They went off as if they had received the last
possible insult. I tried a sweet-looking little chap in white next,
with exactly the same result. Somehow, his manner made me feel
ashamed of myself. But, as you know, I wanted the Time Machine, and
I tried him once more. As he turned off, like the others, my temper
got the better of me. In three strides I was after him, had him by
the loose part of his robe round the neck, and began dragging him
towards the sphinx. Then I saw the horror and repugnance of his
face, and all of a sudden I let him go.

'But I was not beaten yet. I banged with my fist at the bronze
panels. I thought I heard something stir inside--to be explicit,
I thought I heard a sound like a chuckle--but I must have been
mistaken. Then I got a big pebble from the river, and came and
hammered till I had flattened a coil in the decorations, and the
verdigris came off in powdery flakes. The delicate little people
must have heard me hammering in gusty outbreaks a mile away on
either hand, but nothing came of it. I saw a crowd of them upon the
slopes, looking furtively at me. At last, hot and tired, I sat down
to watch the place. But I was too restless to watch long; I am too
Occidental for a long vigil. I could work at a problem for years,
but to wait inactive for twenty-four hours--that is another matter.

'I got up after a time, and began walking aimlessly through the
bushes towards the hill again. "Patience," said I to myself. "If you
want your machine again you must leave that sphinx alone. If they
mean to take your machine away, it's little good your wrecking their
bronze panels, and if they don't, you will get it back as soon as
you can ask for it. To sit among all those unknown things before a
puzzle like that is hopeless. That way lies monomania. Face this
world. Learn its ways, watch it, be careful of too hasty guesses
at its meaning. In the end you will find clues to it all." Then
suddenly the humour of the situation came into my mind: the thought
of the years I had spent in study and toil to get into the future
age, and now my passion of anxiety to get out of it. I had made
myself the most complicated and the most hopeless trap that ever a
man devised. Although it was at my own expense, I could not help
myself. I laughed aloud.

'Going through the big palace, it seemed to me that the little
people avoided me. It may have been my fancy, or it may have had
something to do with my hammering at the gates of bronze. Yet I felt
tolerably sure of the avoidance. I was careful, however, to show no
concern and to abstain from any pursuit of them, and in the course
of a day or two things got back to the old footing. I made what
progress I could in the language, and in addition I pushed my
explorations here and there. Either I missed some subtle point or
their language was excessively simple--almost exclusively composed
of concrete substantives and verbs. There seemed to be few, if any,
abstract terms, or little use of figurative language. Their
sentences were usually simple and of two words, and I failed to
convey or understand any but the simplest propositions. I determined
to put the thought of my Time Machine and the mystery of the bronze
doors under the sphinx as much as possible in a corner of memory,
until my growing knowledge would lead me back to them in a natural
way. Yet a certain feeling, you may understand, tethered me in a
circle of a few miles round the point of my arrival.

'So far as I could see, all the world displayed the same exuberant
richness as the Thames valley. From every hill I climbed I saw the
same abundance of splendid buildings, endlessly varied in material
and style, the same clustering thickets of evergreens, the same
blossom-laden trees and tree-ferns. Here and there water shone like
silver, and beyond, the land rose into blue undulating hills, and
so faded into the serenity of the sky. A peculiar feature, which
presently attracted my attention, was the presence of certain
circular wells, several, as it seemed to me, of a very great depth.
One lay by the path up the hill, which I had followed during my
first walk. Like the others, it was rimmed with bronze, curiously
wrought, and protected by a little cupola from the rain. Sitting by
the side of these wells, and peering down into the shafted darkness,
I could see no gleam of water, nor could I start any reflection
with a lighted match. But in all of them I heard a certain sound:
a thud--thud--thud, like the beating of some big engine; and I
discovered, from the flaring of my matches, that a steady current of
air set down the shafts. Further, I threw a scrap of paper into the
throat of one, and, instead of fluttering slowly down, it was at
once sucked swiftly out of sight.

'After a time, too, I came to connect these wells with tall towers
standing here and there upon the slopes; for above them there was
often just such a flicker in the air as one sees on a hot day above
a sun-scorched beach. Putting things together, I reached a strong
suggestion of an extensive system of subterranean ventilation, whose
true import it was difficult to imagine. I was at first inclined to
associate it with the sanitary apparatus of these people. It was an
obvious conclusion, but it was absolutely wrong.

'And here I must admit that I learned very little of drains and
bells and modes of conveyance, and the like conveniences, during my
time in this real future. In some of these visions of Utopias and
coming times which I have read, there is a vast amount of detail
about building, and social arrangements, and so forth. But while
such details are easy enough to obtain when the whole world is
contained in one's imagination, they are altogether inaccessible to
a real traveller amid such realities as I found here. Conceive the
tale of London which a negro, fresh from Central Africa, would take
back to his tribe! What would he know of railway companies, of
social movements, of telephone and telegraph wires, of the Parcels
Delivery Company, and postal orders and the like? Yet we, at least,
should be willing enough to explain these things to him! And even of
what he knew, how much could he make his untravelled friend either
apprehend or believe? Then, think how narrow the gap between a negro
and a white man of our own times, and how wide the interval between
myself and these of the Golden Age! I was sensible of much which was
unseen, and which contributed to my comfort; but save for a general
impression of automatic organization, I fear I can convey very
little of the difference to your mind.

'In the matter of sepulture, for instance, I could see no signs of
crematoria nor anything suggestive of tombs. But it occurred to me
that, possibly, there might be cemeteries (or crematoria) somewhere
beyond the range of my explorings. This, again, was a question I
deliberately put to myself, and my curiosity was at first entirely
defeated upon the point. The thing puzzled me, and I was led to make
a further remark, which puzzled me still more: that aged and infirm
among this people there were none.

'I must confess that my satisfaction with my first theories of an
automatic civilization and a decadent humanity did not long endure.
Yet I could think of no other. Let me put my difficulties. The
several big palaces I had explored were mere living places, great
dining-halls and sleeping apartments. I could find no machinery, no
appliances of any kind. Yet these people were clothed in pleasant
fabrics that must at times need renewal, and their sandals, though
undecorated, were fairly complex specimens of metalwork. Somehow
such things must be made. And the little people displayed no vestige
of a creative tendency. There were no shops, no workshops, no sign
of importations among them. They spent all their time in playing
gently, in bathing in the river, in making love in a half-playful
fashion, in eating fruit and sleeping. I could not see how things
were kept going.

'Then, again, about the Time Machine: something, I knew not what,
had taken it into the hollow pedestal of the White Sphinx. Why? For
the life of me I could not imagine. Those waterless wells, too,
those flickering pillars. I felt I lacked a clue. I felt--how shall
I put it? Suppose you found an inscription, with sentences here and
there in excellent plain English, and interpolated therewith, others
made up of words, of letters even, absolutely unknown to you? Well,
on the third day of my visit, that was how the world of Eight
Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred and One presented itself to
me!

'That day, too, I made a friend--of a sort. It happened that, as I
was watching some of the little people bathing in a shallow, one of
them was seized with cramp and began drifting downstream. The main
current ran rather swiftly, but not too strongly for even a moderate
swimmer. It will give you an idea, therefore, of the strange
deficiency in these creatures, when I tell you that none made the
slightest attempt to rescue the weakly crying little thing which
was drowning before their eyes. When I realized this, I hurriedly
slipped off my clothes, and, wading in at a point lower down, I
caught the poor mite and drew her safe to land. A little rubbing of
the limbs soon brought her round, and I had the satisfaction of
seeing she was all right before I left her. I had got to such a low
estimate of her kind that I did not expect any gratitude from her.
In that, however, I was wrong.

'This happened in the morning. In the afternoon I met my little
woman, as I believe it was, as I was returning towards my centre
from an exploration, and she received me with cries of delight and
presented me with a big garland of flowers--evidently made for me
and me alone. The thing took my imagination. Very possibly I had
been feeling desolate. At any rate I did my best to display my
appreciation of the gift. We were soon seated together in a little
stone arbour, engaged in conversation, chiefly of smiles. The
creature's friendliness affected me exactly as a child's might have
done. We passed each other flowers, and she kissed my hands. I did
the same to hers. Then I tried talk, and found that her name was
Weena, which, though I don't know what it meant, somehow seemed
appropriate enough. That was the beginning of a queer friendship
which lasted a week, and ended--as I will tell you!

'She was exactly like a child. She wanted to be with me always. She
tried to follow me everywhere, and on my next journey out and about
it went to my heart to tire her down, and leave her at last,
exhausted and calling after me rather plaintively. But the problems
of the world had to be mastered. I had not, I said to myself, come
into the future to carry on a miniature flirtation. Yet her distress
when I left her was very great, her expostulations at the parting
were sometimes frantic, and I think, altogether, I had as much
trouble as comfort from her devotion. Nevertheless she was, somehow,
a very great comfort. I thought it was mere childish affection that
made her cling to me. Until it was too late, I did not clearly know
what I had inflicted upon her when I left her. Nor until it was too
late did I clearly understand what she was to me. For, by merely
seeming fond of me, and showing in her weak, futile way that she
cared for me, the little doll of a creature presently gave my return
to the neighbourhood of the White Sphinx almost the feeling of
coming home; and I would watch for her tiny figure of white and gold
so soon as I came over the hill.

'It was from her, too, that I learned that fear had not yet left the
world. She was fearless enough in the daylight, and she had the
oddest confidence in me; for once, in a foolish moment, I made
threatening grimaces at her, and she simply laughed at them. But she
dreaded the dark, dreaded shadows, dreaded black things. Darkness
to her was the one thing dreadful. It was a singularly passionate
emotion, and it set me thinking and observing. I discovered then,
among other things, that these little people gathered into the great
houses after dark, and slept in droves. To enter upon them without a
light was to put them into a tumult of apprehension. I never found
one out of doors, or one sleeping alone within doors, after dark.
Yet I was still such a blockhead that I missed the lesson of that
fear, and in spite of Weena's distress I insisted upon sleeping away
from these slumbering multitudes.

'It troubled her greatly, but in the end her odd affection for me
triumphed, and for five of the nights of our acquaintance, including
the last night of all, she slept with her head pillowed on my arm.
But my story slips away from me as I speak of her. It must have been
the night before her rescue that I was awakened about dawn. I had
been restless, dreaming most disagreeably that I was drowned, and
that sea anemones were feeling over my face with their soft palps.
I woke with a start, and with an odd fancy that some greyish animal
had just rushed out of the chamber. I tried to get to sleep again,
but I felt restless and uncomfortable. It was that dim grey hour
when things are just creeping out of darkness, when everything is
colourless and clear cut, and yet unreal. I got up, and went down
into the great hall, and so out upon the flagstones in front of the
palace. I thought I would make a virtue of necessity, and see the
sunrise.

'The moon was setting, and the dying moonlight and the first pallor
of dawn were mingled in a ghastly half-light. The bushes were inky
black, the ground a sombre grey, the sky colourless and cheerless.
And up the hill I thought I could see ghosts. There several times,
as I scanned the slope, I saw white figures. Twice I fancied I saw
a solitary white, ape-like creature running rather quickly up the
hill, and once near the ruins I saw a leash of them carrying some
dark body. They moved hastily. I did not see what became of them.
It seemed that they vanished among the bushes. The dawn was still
indistinct, you must understand. I was feeling that chill,
uncertain, early-morning feeling you may have known. I doubted
my eyes.

'As the eastern sky grew brighter, and the light of the day came on
and its vivid colouring returned upon the world once more, I scanned
the view keenly. But I saw no vestige of my white figures. They were
mere creatures of the half light. "They must have been ghosts," I
said; "I wonder whence they dated." For a queer notion of Grant
Allen's came into my head, and amused me. If each generation die and
leave ghosts, he argued, the world at last will get overcrowded with
them. On that theory they would have grown innumerable some Eight
Hundred Thousand Years hence, and it was no great wonder to see four
at once. But the jest was unsatisfying, and I was thinking of these
figures all the morning, until Weena's rescue drove them out of my
head. I associated them in some indefinite way with the white animal
I had startled in my first passionate search for the Time Machine.
But Weena was a pleasant substitute. Yet all the same, they were
soon destined to take far deadlier possession of my mind.

'I think I have said how much hotter than our own was the weather
of this Golden Age. I cannot account for it. It may be that the sun
was hotter, or the earth nearer the sun. It is usual to assume that
the sun will go on cooling steadily in the future. But people,
unfamiliar with such speculations as those of the younger Darwin,
forget that the planets must ultimately fall back one by one into
the parent body. As these catastrophes occur, the sun will blaze
with renewed energy; and it may be that some inner planet had
suffered this fate. Whatever the reason, the fact remains that the
sun was very much hotter than we know it.

'Well, one very hot morning--my fourth, I think--as I was seeking
shelter from the heat and glare in a colossal ruin near the great
house where I slept and fed, there happened this strange thing:
Clambering among these heaps of masonry, I found a narrow gallery,
whose end and side windows were blocked by fallen masses of stone.
By contrast with the brilliancy outside, it seemed at first
impenetrably dark to me. I entered it groping, for the change from
light to blackness made spots of colour swim before me. Suddenly I
halted spellbound. A pair of eyes, luminous by reflection against
the daylight without, was watching me out of the darkness.

'The old instinctive dread of wild beasts came upon me. I clenched
my hands and steadfastly looked into the glaring eyeballs. I was
afraid to turn. Then the thought of the absolute security in which
humanity appeared to be living came to my mind. And then I
remembered that strange terror of the dark. Overcoming my fear to
some extent, I advanced a step and spoke. I will admit that my
voice was harsh and ill-controlled. I put out my hand and touched
something soft. At once the eyes darted sideways, and something
white ran past me. I turned with my heart in my mouth, and saw a
queer little ape-like figure, its head held down in a peculiar
manner, running across the sunlit space behind me. It blundered
against a block of granite, staggered aside, and in a moment was
hidden in a black shadow beneath another pile of ruined masonry.

'My impression of it is, of course, imperfect; but I know it was a
dull white, and had strange large greyish-red eyes; also that there
was flaxen hair on its head and down its back. But, as I say, it
went too fast for me to see distinctly. I cannot even say whether it
ran on all-fours, or only with its forearms held very low. After an
instant's pause I followed it into the second heap of ruins. I could
not find it at first; but, after a time in the profound obscurity, I
came upon one of those round well-like openings of which I have told
you, half closed by a fallen pillar. A sudden thought came to me.
Could this Thing have vanished down the shaft? I lit a match, and,
looking down, I saw a small, white, moving creature, with large
bright eyes which regarded me steadfastly as it retreated. It made
me shudder. It was so like a human spider! It was clambering down
the wall, and now I saw for the first time a number of metal foot
and hand rests forming a kind of ladder down the shaft. Then the
light burned my fingers and fell out of my hand, going out as it
dropped, and when I had lit another the little monster had
disappeared.

'I do not know how long I sat peering down that well. It was not for
some time that I could succeed in persuading myself that the thing I
had seen was human. But, gradually, the truth dawned on me: that
Man had not remained one species, but had differentiated into two
distinct animals: that my graceful children of the Upper-world were
not the sole descendants of our generation, but that this bleached,
obscene, nocturnal Thing, which had flashed before me, was also heir
to all the ages.

'I thought of the flickering pillars and of my theory of an
underground ventilation. I began to suspect their true import. And
what, I wondered, was this Lemur doing in my scheme of a perfectly
balanced organization? How was it related to the indolent serenity
of the beautiful Upper-worlders? And what was hidden down there,
at the foot of that shaft? I sat upon the edge of the well telling
myself that, at any rate, there was nothing to fear, and that there
I must descend for the solution of my difficulties. And withal I
was absolutely afraid to go! As I hesitated, two of the beautiful
Upper-world people came running in their amorous sport across the
daylight in the shadow. The male pursued the female, flinging
flowers at her as he ran.

'They seemed distressed to find me, my arm against the overturned
pillar, peering down the well. Apparently it was considered bad form
to remark these apertures; for when I pointed to this one, and tried
to frame a question about it in their tongue, they were still more
visibly distressed and turned away. But they were interested by my
matches, and I struck some to amuse them. I tried them again about
the well, and again I failed. So presently I left them, meaning to
go back to Weena, and see what I could get from her. But my mind was
already in revolution; my guesses and impressions were slipping and
sliding to a new adjustment. I had now a clue to the import of these
wells, to the ventilating towers, to the mystery of the ghosts; to
say nothing of a hint at the meaning of the bronze gates and the
fate of the Time Machine! And very vaguely there came a suggestion
towards the solution of the economic problem that had puzzled me.

'Here was the new view. Plainly, this second species of Man was
subterranean. There were three circumstances in particular which
made me think that its rare emergence above ground was the outcome
of a long-continued underground habit. In the first place, there was
the bleached look common in most animals that live largely in the
dark--the white fish of the Kentucky caves, for instance. Then,
those large eyes, with that capacity for reflecting light, are
common features of nocturnal things--witness the owl and the cat.
And last of all, that evident confusion in the sunshine, that hasty
yet fumbling awkward flight towards dark shadow, and that peculiar
carriage of the head while in the light--all reinforced the theory
of an extreme sensitiveness of the retina.

'Beneath my feet, then, the earth must be tunnelled enormously, and
these tunnellings were the habitat of the new race. The presence of
ventilating shafts and wells along the hill slopes--everywhere, in
fact, except along the river valley--showed how universal were its
ramifications. What so natural, then, as to assume that it was in
this artificial Underworld that such work as was necessary to the
comfort of the daylight race was done? The notion was so plausible
that I at once accepted it, and went on to assume the _how_ of this
splitting of the human species. I dare say you will anticipate the
shape of my theory; though, for myself, I very soon felt that it
fell far short of the truth.

'At first, proceeding from the problems of our own age, it seemed
clear as daylight to me that the gradual widening of the present
merely temporary and social difference between the Capitalist and
the Labourer, was the key to the whole position. No doubt it will
seem grotesque enough to you--and wildly incredible!--and yet even
now there are existing circumstances to point that way. There is
a tendency to utilize underground space for the less ornamental
purposes of civilization; there is the Metropolitan Railway in
London, for instance, there are new electric railways, there are
subways, there are underground workrooms and restaurants, and they
increase and multiply. Evidently, I thought, this tendency had
increased till Industry had gradually lost its birthright in the
sky. I mean that it had gone deeper and deeper into larger and ever
larger underground factories, spending a still-increasing amount of
its time therein, till, in the end--! Even now, does not an East-end
worker live in such artificial conditions as practically to be cut
off from the natural surface of the earth?

'Again, the exclusive tendency of richer people--due, no doubt, to
the increasing refinement of their education, and the widening gulf
between them and the rude violence of the poor--is already leading
to the closing, in their interest, of considerable portions of the
surface of the land. About London, for instance, perhaps half the
prettier country is shut in against intrusion. And this same
widening gulf--which is due to the length and expense of the higher
educational process and the increased facilities for and temptations
towards refined habits on the part of the rich--will make that
exchange between class and class, that promotion by intermarriage
which at present retards the splitting of our species along lines
of social stratification, less and less frequent. So, in the end,
above ground you must have the Haves, pursuing pleasure and comfort
and beauty, and below ground the Have-nots, the Workers getting
continually adapted to the conditions of their labour. Once they
were there, they would no doubt have to pay rent, and not a little
of it, for the ventilation of their caverns; and if they refused,
they would starve or be suffocated for arrears. Such of them as were
so constituted as to be miserable and rebellious would die; and, in
the end, the balance being permanent, the survivors would become as
well adapted to the conditions of underground life, and as happy in
their way, as the Upper-world people were to theirs. As it seemed to
me, the refined beauty and the etiolated pallor followed naturally
enough.

'The great triumph of Humanity I had dreamed of took a different
shape in my mind. It had been no such triumph of moral education and
general co-operation as I had imagined. Instead, I saw a real
aristocracy, armed with a perfected science and working to a logical
conclusion the industrial system of to-day. Its triumph had not been
simply a triumph over Nature, but a triumph over Nature and the
fellow-man. This, I must warn you, was my theory at the time. I had
no convenient cicerone in the pattern of the Utopian books. My
explanation may be absolutely wrong. I still think it is the
most plausible one. But even on this supposition the balanced
civilization that was at last attained must have long since passed
its zenith, and was now far fallen into decay. The too-perfect
security of the Upper-worlders had led them to a slow movement of
degeneration, to a general dwindling in size, strength, and
intelligence. That I could see clearly enough already. What had
happened to the Under-grounders I did not yet suspect; but from what
I had seen of the Morlocks--that, by the by, was the name by which
these creatures were called--I could imagine that the modification
of the human type was even far more profound than among the "Eloi,"
the beautiful race that I already knew.

'Then came troublesome doubts. Why had the Morlocks taken my Time
Machine? For I felt sure it was they who had taken it. Why, too, if
the Eloi were masters, could they not restore the machine to me? And
why were they so terribly afraid of the dark? I proceeded, as I have
said, to question Weena about this Under-world, but here again I was
disappointed. At first she would not understand my questions, and
presently she refused to answer them. She shivered as though the
topic was unendurable. And when I pressed her, perhaps a little
harshly, she burst into tears. They were the only tears, except my
own, I ever saw in that Golden Age. When I saw them I ceased
abruptly to trouble about the Morlocks, and was only concerned in
banishing these signs of the human inheritance from Weena's eyes.
And very soon she was smiling and clapping her hands, while I
solemnly burned a match.




VI


'It may seem odd to you, but it was two days before I could follow
up the new-found clue in what was manifestly the proper way. I felt
a peculiar shrinking from those pallid bodies. They were just the
half-bleached colour of the worms and things one sees preserved in
spirit in a zoological museum. And they were filthily cold to the
touch. Probably my shrinking was largely due to the sympathetic
influence of the Eloi, whose disgust of the Morlocks I now began
to appreciate.

'The next night I did not sleep well. Probably my health was a
little disordered. I was oppressed with perplexity and doubt. Once
or twice I had a feeling of intense fear for which I could perceive
no definite reason. I remember creeping noiselessly into the great
hall where the little people were sleeping in the moonlight--that
night Weena was among them--and feeling reassured by their presence.
It occurred to me even then, that in the course of a few days the
moon must pass through its last quarter, and the nights grow dark,
when the appearances of these unpleasant creatures from below, these
whitened Lemurs, this new vermin that had replaced the old, might be
more abundant. And on both these days I had the restless feeling of
one who shirks an inevitable duty. I felt assured that the Time
Machine was only to be recovered by boldly penetrating these
underground mysteries. Yet I could not face the mystery. If only I
had had a companion it would have been different. But I was so
horribly alone, and even to clamber down into the darkness of the
well appalled me. I don't know if you will understand my feeling,
but I never felt quite safe at my back.

'It was this restlessness, this insecurity, perhaps, that drove me
further and further afield in my exploring expeditions. Going to the
south-westward towards the rising country that is now called Combe
Wood, I observed far off, in the direction of nineteenth-century
Banstead, a vast green structure, different in character from any
I had hitherto seen. It was larger than the largest of the palaces
or ruins I knew, and the facade had an Oriental look: the face
of it having the lustre, as well as the pale-green tint, a kind
of bluish-green, of a certain type of Chinese porcelain. This
difference in aspect suggested a difference in use, and I was minded
to push on and explore. But the day was growing late, and I had come
upon the sight of the place after a long and tiring circuit; so I
resolved to hold over the adventure for the following day, and I
returned to the welcome and the caresses of little Weena. But next
morning I perceived clearly enough that my curiosity regarding the
Palace of Green Porcelain was a piece of self-deception, to enable
me to shirk, by another day, an experience I dreaded. I resolved I
would make the descent without further waste of time, and started
out in the early morning towards a well near the ruins of granite
and aluminium.

'Little Weena ran with me. She danced beside me to the well, but
when she saw me lean over the mouth and look downward, she seemed
strangely disconcerted. "Good-bye, little Weena," I said, kissing
her; and then putting her down, I began to feel over the parapet
for the climbing hooks. Rather hastily, I may as well confess, for
I feared my courage might leak away! At first she watched me in
amazement. Then she gave a most piteous cry, and running to me, she
began to pull at me with her little hands. I think her opposition
nerved me rather to proceed. I shook her off, perhaps a little
roughly, and in another moment I was in the throat of the well. I
saw her agonized face over the parapet, and smiled to reassure her.
Then I had to look down at the unstable hooks to which I clung.

'I had to clamber down a shaft of perhaps two hundred yards. The
descent was effected by means of metallic bars projecting from
the sides of the well, and these being adapted to the needs of
a creature much smaller and lighter than myself, I was speedily
cramped and fatigued by the descent. And not simply fatigued! One of
the bars bent suddenly under my weight, and almost swung me off into
the blackness beneath. For a moment I hung by one hand, and after
that experience I did not dare to rest again. Though my arms and
back were presently acutely painful, I went on clambering down the
sheer descent with as quick a motion as possible. Glancing upward,
I saw the aperture, a small blue disk, in which a star was visible,
while little Weena's head showed as a round black projection. The
thudding sound of a machine below grew louder and more oppressive.
Everything save that little disk above was profoundly dark, and when
I looked up again Weena had disappeared.

'I was in an agony of discomfort. I had some thought of trying to go
up the shaft again, and leave the Under-world alone. But even while
I turned this over in my mind I continued to descend. At last, with
intense relief, I saw dimly coming up, a foot to the right of me, a
slender loophole in the wall. Swinging myself in, I found it was the
aperture of a narrow horizontal tunnel in which I could lie down and
rest. It was not too soon. My arms ached, my back was cramped, and I
was trembling with the prolonged terror of a fall. Besides this, the
unbroken darkness had had a distressing effect upon my eyes. The air
was full of the throb and hum of machinery pumping air down the
shaft.

'I do not know how long I lay. I was roused by a soft hand touching
my face. Starting up in the darkness I snatched at my matches and,
hastily striking one, I saw three stooping white creatures similar
to the one I had seen above ground in the ruin, hastily retreating
before the light. Living, as they did, in what appeared to me
impenetrable darkness, their eyes were abnormally large and
sensitive, just as are the pupils of the abysmal fishes, and they
reflected the light in the same way. I have no doubt they could see
me in that rayless obscurity, and they did not seem to have any fear
of me apart from the light. But, so soon as I struck a match in
order to see them, they fled incontinently, vanishing into dark
gutters and tunnels, from which their eyes glared at me in the
strangest fashion.

'I tried to call to them, but the language they had was apparently
different from that of the Over-world people; so that I was needs
left to my own unaided efforts, and the thought of flight before
exploration was even then in my mind. But I said to myself, "You are
in for it now," and, feeling my way along the tunnel, I found the
noise of machinery grow louder. Presently the walls fell away from
me, and I came to a large open space, and striking another match,
saw that I had entered a vast arched cavern, which stretched into
utter darkness beyond the range of my light. The view I had of it
was as much as one could see in the burning of a match.

'Necessarily my memory is vague. Great shapes like big machines rose
out of the dimness, and cast grotesque black shadows, in which dim
spectral Morlocks sheltered from the glare. The place, by the by,
was very stuffy and oppressive, and the faint halitus of freshly
shed blood was in the air. Some way down the central vista was a
little table of white metal, laid with what seemed a meal. The
Morlocks at any rate were carnivorous! Even at the time, I remember
wondering what large animal could have survived to furnish the red
joint I saw. It was all very indistinct: the heavy smell, the big
unmeaning shapes, the obscene figures lurking in the shadows, and
only waiting for the darkness to come at me again! Then the match
burned down, and stung my fingers, and fell, a wriggling red spot
in the blackness.

'I have thought since how particularly ill-equipped I was for such
an experience. When I had started with the Time Machine, I had
started with the absurd assumption that the men of the Future would
certainly be infinitely ahead of ourselves in all their appliances.
I had come without arms, without medicine, without anything to
smoke--at times I missed tobacco frightfully--even without enough
matches. If only I had thought of a Kodak! I could have flashed that
glimpse of the Underworld in a second, and examined it at leisure.
But, as it was, I stood there with only the weapons and the powers
that Nature had endowed me with--hands, feet, and teeth; these, and
four safety-matches that still remained to me.

'I was afraid to push my way in among all this machinery in the
dark, and it was only with my last glimpse of light I discovered
that my store of matches had run low. It had never occurred to me
until that moment that there was any need to economize them, and I
had wasted almost half the box in astonishing the Upper-worlders, to
whom fire was a novelty. Now, as I say, I had four left, and while I
stood in the dark, a hand touched mine, lank fingers came feeling
over my face, and I was sensible of a peculiar unpleasant odour. I
fancied I heard the breathing of a crowd of those dreadful little
beings about me. I felt the box of matches in my hand being gently
disengaged, and other hands behind me plucking at my clothing. The
sense of these unseen creatures examining me was indescribably
unpleasant. The sudden realization of my ignorance of their ways of
thinking and doing came home to me very vividly in the darkness. I
shouted at them as loudly as I could. They started away, and then
I could feel them approaching me again. They clutched at me more
boldly, whispering odd sounds to each other. I shivered violently,
and shouted again--rather discordantly. This time they were not so
seriously alarmed, and they made a queer laughing noise as they came
back at me. I will confess I was horribly frightened. I determined
to strike another match and escape under the protection of its
glare. I did so, and eking out the flicker with a scrap of paper
from my pocket, I made good my retreat to the narrow tunnel. But I
had scarce entered this when my light was blown out and in the
blackness I could hear the Morlocks rustling like wind among leaves,
and pattering like the rain, as they hurried after me.

'In a moment I was clutched by several hands, and there was no
mistaking that they were trying to haul me back. I struck another
light, and waved it in their dazzled faces. You can scarce imagine
how nauseatingly inhuman they looked--those pale, chinless faces
and great, lidless, pinkish-grey eyes!--as they stared in their
blindness and bewilderment. But I did not stay to look, I promise
you: I retreated again, and when my second match had ended, I struck
my third. It had almost burned through when I reached the opening
into the shaft. I lay down on the edge, for the throb of the great
pump below made me giddy. Then I felt sideways for the projecting
hooks, and, as I did so, my feet were grasped from behind, and I
was violently tugged backward. I lit my last match ... and it
incontinently went out. But I had my hand on the climbing bars now,
and, kicking violently, I disengaged myself from the clutches of the
Morlocks and was speedily clambering up the shaft, while they stayed
peering and blinking up at me: all but one little wretch who
followed me for some way, and well-nigh secured my boot as a trophy.

'That climb seemed interminable to me. With the last twenty or
thirty feet of it a deadly nausea came upon me. I had the greatest
difficulty in keeping my hold. The last few yards was a frightful
struggle against this faintness. Several times my head swam, and I
felt all the sensations of falling. At last, however, I got over the
well-mouth somehow, and staggered out of the ruin into the blinding
sunlight. I fell upon my face. Even the soil smelt sweet and clean.
Then I remember Weena kissing my hands and ears, and the voices of
others among the Eloi. Then, for a time, I was insensible.




VII


'Now, indeed, I seemed in a worse case than before. Hitherto,
except during my night's anguish at the loss of the Time Machine,
I had felt a sustaining hope of ultimate escape, but that hope was
staggered by these new discoveries. Hitherto I had merely thought
myself impeded by the childish simplicity of the little people, and
by some unknown forces which I had only to understand to overcome;
but there was an altogether new element in the sickening quality of
the Morlocks--a something inhuman and malign. Instinctively I
loathed them. Before, I had felt as a man might feel who had fallen
into a pit: my concern was with the pit and how to get out of it.
Now I felt like a beast in a trap, whose enemy would come upon him
soon.

'The enemy I dreaded may surprise you. It was the darkness of the
new moon. Weena had put this into my head by some at first
incomprehensible remarks about the Dark Nights. It was not now
such a very difficult problem to guess what the coming Dark Nights
might mean. The moon was on the wane: each night there was a longer
interval of darkness. And I now understood to some slight degree at
least the reason of the fear of the little Upper-world people for
the dark. I wondered vaguely what foul villainy it might be that
the Morlocks did under the new moon. I felt pretty sure now that
my second hypothesis was all wrong. The Upper-world people might
once have been the favoured aristocracy, and the Morlocks their
mechanical servants: but that had long since passed away. The two
species that had resulted from the evolution of man were sliding
down towards, or had already arrived at, an altogether new
relationship. The Eloi, like the Carolingian kings, had decayed
to a mere beautiful futility. They still possessed the earth on
sufferance: since the Morlocks, subterranean for innumerable
generations, had come at last to find the daylit surface
intolerable. And the Morlocks made their garments, I inferred, and
maintained them in their habitual needs, perhaps through the
survival of an old habit of service. They did it as a standing horse
paws with his foot, or as a man enjoys killing animals in sport:
because ancient and departed necessities had impressed it on the
organism. But, clearly, the old order was already in part reversed.
The Nemesis of the delicate ones was creeping on apace. Ages ago,
thousands of generations ago, man had thrust his brother man out of
the ease and the sunshine. And now that brother was coming back
changed! Already the Eloi had begun to learn one old lesson anew.
They were becoming reacquainted with Fear. And suddenly there came
into my head the memory of the meat I had seen in the Under-world.
It seemed odd how it floated into my mind: not stirred up as it
were by the current of my meditations, but coming in almost like a
question from outside. I tried to recall the form of it. I had a
vague sense of something familiar, but I could not tell what it was
at the time.

'Still, however helpless the little people in the presence of their
mysterious Fear, I was differently constituted. I came out of this
age of ours, this ripe prime of the human race, when Fear does not
paralyse and mystery has lost its terrors. I at least would defend
myself. Without further delay I determined to make myself arms and a
fastness where I might sleep. With that refuge as a base, I could
face this strange world with some of that confidence I had lost in
realizing to what creatures night by night I lay exposed. I felt
I could never sleep again until my bed was secure from them. I
shuddered with horror to think how they must already have examined
me.

'I wandered during the afternoon along the valley of the Thames, but
found nothing that commended itself to my mind as inaccessible. All
the buildings and trees seemed easily practicable to such dexterous
climbers as the Morlocks, to judge by their wells, must be. Then the
tall pinnacles of the Palace of Green Porcelain and the polished
gleam of its walls came back to my memory; and in the evening,
taking Weena like a child upon my shoulder, I went up the hills
towards the south-west. The distance, I had reckoned, was seven or
eight miles, but it must have been nearer eighteen. I had first seen
the place on a moist afternoon when distances are deceptively
diminished. In addition, the heel of one of my shoes was loose, and
a nail was working through the sole--they were comfortable old shoes
I wore about indoors--so that I was lame. And it was already long
past sunset when I came in sight of the palace, silhouetted black
against the pale yellow of the sky.

'Weena had been hugely delighted when I began to carry her, but
after a while she desired me to let her down, and ran along by the
side of me, occasionally darting off on either hand to pick flowers
to stick in my pockets. My pockets had always puzzled Weena, but at
the last she had concluded that they were an eccentric kind of vase
for floral decoration. At least she utilized them for that purpose.
And that reminds me! In changing my jacket I found...'

The Time Traveller paused, put his hand into his pocket, and
silently placed two withered flowers, not unlike very large white
mallows, upon the little table. Then he resumed his narrative.

'As the hush of evening crept over the world and we proceeded over
the hill crest towards Wimbledon, Weena grew tired and wanted to
return to the house of grey stone. But I pointed out the distant
pinnacles of the Palace of Green Porcelain to her, and contrived to
make her understand that we were seeking a refuge there from her
Fear. You know that great pause that comes upon things before the
dusk? Even the breeze stops in the trees. To me there is always an
air of expectation about that evening stillness. The sky was clear,
remote, and empty save for a few horizontal bars far down in the
sunset. Well, that night the expectation took the colour of my
fears. In that darkling calm my senses seemed preternaturally
sharpened. I fancied I could even feel the hollowness of the ground
beneath my feet: could, indeed, almost see through it the Morlocks
on their ant-hill going hither and thither and waiting for the dark.
In my excitement I fancied that they would receive my invasion of
their burrows as a declaration of war. And why had they taken my
Time Machine?

'So we went on in the quiet, and the twilight deepened into night.
The clear blue of the distance faded, and one star after another
came out. The ground grew dim and the trees black. Weena's fears and
her fatigue grew upon her. I took her in my arms and talked to her
and caressed her. Then, as the darkness grew deeper, she put her
arms round my neck, and, closing her eyes, tightly pressed her face
against my shoulder. So we went down a long slope into a valley, and
there in the dimness I almost walked into a little river. This I
waded, and went up the opposite side of the valley, past a number
of sleeping houses, and by a statue--a Faun, or some such figure,
_minus_ the head. Here too were acacias. So far I had seen nothing of
the Morlocks, but it was yet early in the night, and the darker hours
before the old moon rose were still to come.

'From the brow of the next hill I saw a thick wood spreading wide
and black before me. I hesitated at this. I could see no end to
it, either to the right or the left. Feeling tired--my feet, in
particular, were very sore--I carefully lowered Weena from my
shoulder as I halted, and sat down upon the turf. I could no
longer see the Palace of Green Porcelain, and I was in doubt of my
direction. I looked into the thickness of the wood and thought of
what it might hide. Under that dense tangle of branches one would
be out of sight of the stars. Even were there no other lurking
danger--a danger I did not care to let my imagination loose
upon--there would still be all the roots to stumble over and the
tree-boles to strike against.

'I was very tired, too, after the excitements of the day; so I
decided that I would not face it, but would pass the night upon the
open hill.

'Weena, I was glad to find, was fast asleep. I carefully wrapped her
in my jacket, and sat down beside her to wait for the moonrise. The
hill-side was quiet and deserted, but from the black of the wood
there came now and then a stir of living things. Above me shone the
stars, for the night was very clear. I felt a certain sense of
friendly comfort in their twinkling. All the old constellations
had gone from the sky, however: that slow movement which is
imperceptible in a hundred human lifetimes, had long since
rearranged them in unfamiliar groupings. But the Milky Way, it
seemed to me, was still the same tattered streamer of star-dust as
of yore. Southward (as I judged it) was a very bright red star that
was new to me; it was even more splendid than our own green Sirius.
And amid all these scintillating points of light one bright planet
shone kindly and steadily like the face of an old friend.

'Looking at these stars suddenly dwarfed my own troubles and all
the gravities of terrestrial life. I thought of their unfathomable
distance, and the slow inevitable drift of their movements out of
the unknown past into the unknown future. I thought of the great
precessional cycle that the pole of the earth describes. Only forty
times had that silent revolution occurred during all the years that
I had traversed. And during these few revolutions all the activity,
all the traditions, the complex organizations, the nations,
languages, literatures, aspirations, even the mere memory of Man as
I knew him, had been swept out of existence. Instead were these
frail creatures who had forgotten their high ancestry, and the white
Things of which I went in terror. Then I thought of the Great Fear
that was between the two species, and for the first time, with a
sudden shiver, came the clear knowledge of what the meat I had seen
might be. Yet it was too horrible! I looked at little Weena sleeping
beside me, her face white and starlike under the stars, and
forthwith dismissed the thought.

'Through that long night I held my mind off the Morlocks as well as
I could, and whiled away the time by trying to fancy I could find
signs of the old constellations in the new confusion. The sky kept
very clear, except for a hazy cloud or so. No doubt I dozed at
times. Then, as my vigil wore on, came a faintness in the eastward
sky, like the reflection of some colourless fire, and the old moon
rose, thin and peaked and white. And close behind, and overtaking
it, and overflowing it, the dawn came, pale at first, and then
growing pink and warm. No Morlocks had approached us. Indeed, I had
seen none upon the hill that night. And in the confidence of renewed
day it almost seemed to me that my fear had been unreasonable. I
stood up and found my foot with the loose heel swollen at the ankle
and painful under the heel; so I sat down again, took off my shoes,
and flung them away.

'I awakened Weena, and we went down into the wood, now green and
pleasant instead of black and forbidding. We found some fruit
wherewith to break our fast. We soon met others of the dainty ones,
laughing and dancing in the sunlight as though there was no such
thing in nature as the night. And then I thought once more of the
meat that I had seen. I felt assured now of what it was, and from
the bottom of my heart I pitied this last feeble rill from the great
flood of humanity. Clearly, at some time in the Long-Ago of human
decay the Morlocks' food had run short. Possibly they had lived on
rats and such-like vermin. Even now man is far less discriminating
and exclusive in his food than he was--far less than any monkey. His
prejudice against human flesh is no deep-seated instinct. And so
these inhuman sons of men----! I tried to look at the thing in a
scientific spirit. After all, they were less human and more remote
than our cannibal ancestors of three or four thousand years ago.
And the intelligence that would have made this state of things a
torment had gone. Why should I trouble myself? These Eloi were mere
fatted cattle, which the ant-like Morlocks preserved and preyed
upon--probably saw to the breeding of. And there was Weena dancing
at my side!

'Then I tried to preserve myself from the horror that was coming
upon me, by regarding it as a rigorous punishment of human
selfishness. Man had been content to live in ease and delight upon
the labours of his fellow-man, had taken Necessity as his watchword
and excuse, and in the fullness of time Necessity had come home to
him. I even tried a Carlyle-like scorn of this wretched aristocracy
in decay. But this attitude of mind was impossible. However great
their intellectual degradation, the Eloi had kept too much of the
human form not to claim my sympathy, and to make me perforce a
sharer in their degradation and their Fear.

'I had at that time very vague ideas as to the course I should
pursue. My first was to secure some safe place of refuge, and to
make myself such arms of metal or stone as I could contrive. That
necessity was immediate. In the next place, I hoped to procure some
means of fire, so that I should have the weapon of a torch at hand,
for nothing, I knew, would be more efficient against these Morlocks.
Then I wanted to arrange some contrivance to break open the doors of
bronze under the White Sphinx. I had in mind a battering ram. I had
a persuasion that if I could enter those doors and carry a blaze of
light before me I should discover the Time Machine and escape. I
could not imagine the Morlocks were strong enough to move it far
away. Weena I had resolved to bring with me to our own time. And
turning such schemes over in my mind I pursued our way towards the
building which my fancy had chosen as our dwelling.




VIII


'I found the Palace of Green Porcelain, when we approached it about
noon, deserted and falling into ruin. Only ragged vestiges of glass
remained in its windows, and great sheets of the green facing had
fallen away from the corroded metallic framework. It lay very high
upon a turfy down, and looking north-eastward before I entered it, I
was surprised to see a large estuary, or even creek, where I judged
Wandsworth and Battersea must once have been. I thought then--though
I never followed up the thought--of what might have happened, or
might be happening, to the living things in the sea.

'The material of the Palace proved on examination to be indeed
porcelain, and along the face of it I saw an inscription in some
unknown character. I thought, rather foolishly, that Weena might
help me to interpret this, but I only learned that the bare idea of
writing had never entered her head. She always seemed to me, I
fancy, more human than she was, perhaps because her affection was so
human.

'Within the big valves of the door--which were open and broken--we
found, instead of the customary hall, a long gallery lit by many
side windows. At the first glance I was reminded of a museum.
The tiled floor was thick with dust, and a remarkable array of
miscellaneous objects was shrouded in the same grey covering. Then
I perceived, standing strange and gaunt in the centre of the hall,
what was clearly the lower part of a huge skeleton. I recognized
by the oblique feet that it was some extinct creature after the
fashion of the Megatherium. The skull and the upper bones lay
beside it in the thick dust, and in one place, where rain-water had
dropped through a leak in the roof, the thing itself had been worn
away. Further in the gallery was the huge skeleton barrel of a
Brontosaurus. My museum hypothesis was confirmed. Going towards the
side I found what appeared to be sloping shelves, and clearing away
the thick dust, I found the old familiar glass cases of our own
time. But they must have been air-tight to judge from the fair
preservation of some of their contents.

'Clearly we stood among the ruins of some latter-day South
Kensington! Here, apparently, was the Palaeontological Section,
and a very splendid array of fossils it must have been, though the
inevitable process of decay that had been staved off for a time, and
had, through the extinction of bacteria and fungi, lost ninety-nine
hundredths of its force, was nevertheless, with extreme sureness if
with extreme slowness at work again upon all its treasures. Here and
there I found traces of the little people in the shape of rare
fossils broken to pieces or threaded in strings upon reeds. And the
cases had in some instances been bodily removed--by the Morlocks as
I judged. The place was very silent. The thick dust deadened our
footsteps. Weena, who had been rolling a sea urchin down the sloping
glass of a case, presently came, as I stared about me, and very
quietly took my hand and stood beside me.

'And at first I was so much surprised by this ancient monument of an
intellectual age, that I gave no thought to the possibilities it
presented. Even my preoccupation about the Time Machine receded a
little from my mind.

'To judge from the size of the place, this Palace of Green Porcelain
had a great deal more in it than a Gallery of Palaeontology;
possibly historical galleries; it might be, even a library! To me,
at least in my present circumstances, these would be vastly more
interesting than this spectacle of oldtime geology in decay.
Exploring, I found another short gallery running transversely to the
first. This appeared to be devoted to minerals, and the sight of a
block of sulphur set my mind running on gunpowder. But I could find
no saltpeter; indeed, no nitrates of any kind. Doubtless they had
deliquesced ages ago. Yet the sulphur hung in my mind, and set up a
train of thinking. As for the rest of the contents of that gallery,
though on the whole they were the best preserved of all I saw, I had
little interest. I am no specialist in mineralogy, and I went on
down a very ruinous aisle running parallel to the first hall I had
entered. Apparently this section had been devoted to natural
history, but everything had long since passed out of recognition. A
few shrivelled and blackened vestiges of what had once been stuffed
animals, desiccated mummies in jars that had once held spirit, a
brown dust of departed plants: that was all! I was sorry for that,
because I should have been glad to trace the patent readjustments by
which the conquest of animated nature had been attained. Then we
came to a gallery of simply colossal proportions, but singularly
ill-lit, the floor of it running downward at a slight angle from the
end at which I entered. At intervals white globes hung from the
ceiling--many of them cracked and smashed--which suggested that
originally the place had been artificially lit. Here I was more in
my element, for rising on either side of me were the huge bulks of
big machines, all greatly corroded and many broken down, but some
still fairly complete. You know I have a certain weakness for
mechanism, and I was inclined to linger among these; the more so as
for the most part they had the interest of puzzles, and I could make
only the vaguest guesses at what they were for. I fancied that if
I could solve their puzzles I should find myself in possession of
powers that might be of use against the Morlocks.

'Suddenly Weena came very close to my side. So suddenly that she
startled me. Had it not been for her I do not think I should have
noticed that the floor of the gallery sloped at all. [Footnote: It
may be, of course, that the floor did not slope, but that the museum
was built into the side of a hill.--ED.] The end I had come in at
was quite above ground, and was lit by rare slit-like windows. As
you went down the length, the ground came up against these windows,
until at last there was a pit like the "area" of a London house
before each, and only a narrow line of daylight at the top. I went
slowly along, puzzling about the machines, and had been too intent
upon them to notice the gradual diminution of the light, until
Weena's increasing apprehensions drew my attention. Then I saw that
the gallery ran down at last into a thick darkness. I hesitated, and
then, as I looked round me, I saw that the dust was less abundant
and its surface less even. Further away towards the dimness, it
appeared to be broken by a number of small narrow footprints. My
sense of the immediate presence of the Morlocks revived at that.
I felt that I was wasting my time in the academic examination of
machinery. I called to mind that it was already far advanced in the
afternoon, and that I had still no weapon, no refuge, and no means
of making a fire. And then down in the remote blackness of the
gallery I heard a peculiar pattering, and the same odd noises I had
heard down the well.

'I took Weena's hand. Then, struck with a sudden idea, I left her
and turned to a machine from which projected a lever not unlike
those in a signal-box. Clambering upon the stand, and grasping this
lever in my hands, I put all my weight upon it sideways. Suddenly
Weena, deserted in the central aisle, began to whimper. I had judged
the strength of the lever pretty correctly, for it snapped after a
minute's strain, and I rejoined her with a mace in my hand more than
sufficient, I judged, for any Morlock skull I might encounter. And I
longed very much to kill a Morlock or so. Very inhuman, you may
think, to want to go killing one's own descendants! But it was
impossible, somehow, to feel any humanity in the things. Only my
disinclination to leave Weena, and a persuasion that if I began to
slake my thirst for murder my Time Machine might suffer, restrained
me from going straight down the gallery and killing the brutes I
heard.

'Well, mace in one hand and Weena in the other, I went out of that
gallery and into another and still larger one, which at the first
glance reminded me of a military chapel hung with tattered flags.
The brown and charred rags that hung from the sides of it, I
presently recognized as the decaying vestiges of books. They had
long since dropped to pieces, and every semblance of print had left
them. But here and there were warped boards and cracked metallic
clasps that told the tale well enough. Had I been a literary man I
might, perhaps, have moralized upon the futility of all ambition.
But as it was, the thing that struck me with keenest force was the
enormous waste of labour to which this sombre wilderness of rotting
paper testified. At the time I will confess that I thought chiefly
of the _Philosophical Transactions_ and my own seventeen papers upon
physical optics.

'Then, going up a broad staircase, we came to what may once have
been a gallery of technical chemistry. And here I had not a little
hope of useful discoveries. Except at one end where the roof had
collapsed, this gallery was well preserved. I went eagerly to every
unbroken case. And at last, in one of the really air-tight cases,
I found a box of matches. Very eagerly I tried them. They were
perfectly good. They were not even damp. I turned to Weena. "Dance,"
I cried to her in her own tongue. For now I had a weapon indeed
against the horrible creatures we feared. And so, in that derelict
museum, upon the thick soft carpeting of dust, to Weena's huge
delight, I solemnly performed a kind of composite dance, whistling
_The Land of the Leal_ as cheerfully as I could. In part it was a
modest _cancan_, in part a step dance, in part a skirt-dance (so far
as my tail-coat permitted), and in part original. For I am naturally
inventive, as you know.

'Now, I still think that for this box of matches to have escaped
the wear of time for immemorial years was a most strange, as for
me it was a most fortunate thing. Yet, oddly enough, I found a far
unlikelier substance, and that was camphor. I found it in a sealed
jar, that by chance, I suppose, had been really hermetically sealed.
I fancied at first that it was paraffin wax, and smashed the glass
accordingly. But the odour of camphor was unmistakable. In the
universal decay this volatile substance had chanced to survive,
perhaps through many thousands of centuries. It reminded me of a
sepia painting I had once seen done from the ink of a fossil
Belemnite that must have perished and become fossilized millions
of years ago. I was about to throw it away, but I remembered that
it was inflammable and burned with a good bright flame--was, in
fact, an excellent candle--and I put it in my pocket. I found no
explosives, however, nor any means of breaking down the bronze
doors. As yet my iron crowbar was the most helpful thing I had
chanced upon. Nevertheless I left that gallery greatly elated.

'I cannot tell you all the story of that long afternoon. It would
require a great effort of memory to recall my explorations in at all
the proper order. I remember a long gallery of rusting stands of
arms, and how I hesitated between my crowbar and a hatchet or a
sword. I could not carry both, however, and my bar of iron promised
best against the bronze gates. There were numbers of guns, pistols,
and rifles. The most were masses of rust, but many were of some
new metal, and still fairly sound. But any cartridges or powder
there may once have been had rotted into dust. One corner I saw was
charred and shattered; perhaps, I thought, by an explosion among the
specimens. In another place was a vast array of idols--Polynesian,
Mexican, Grecian, Phoenician, every country on earth I should think.
And here, yielding to an irresistible impulse, I wrote my name upon
the nose of a steatite monster from South America that particularly
took my fancy.

'As the evening drew on, my interest waned. I went through gallery
after gallery, dusty, silent, often ruinous, the exhibits sometimes
mere heaps of rust and lignite, sometimes fresher. In one place I
suddenly found myself near the model of a tin-mine, and then by the
merest accident I discovered, in an air-tight case, two dynamite
cartridges! I shouted "Eureka!" and smashed the case with joy. Then
came a doubt. I hesitated. Then, selecting a little side gallery,
I made my essay. I never felt such a disappointment as I did in
waiting five, ten, fifteen minutes for an explosion that never came.
Of course the things were dummies, as I might have guessed from
their presence. I really believe that had they not been so, I should
have rushed off incontinently and blown Sphinx, bronze doors, and
(as it proved) my chances of finding the Time Machine, all together
into non-existence.

'It was after that, I think, that we came to a little open court
within the palace. It was turfed, and had three fruit-trees. So we
rested and refreshed ourselves. Towards sunset I began to consider
our position. Night was creeping upon us, and my inaccessible
hiding-place had still to be found. But that troubled me very little
now. I had in my possession a thing that was, perhaps, the best of
all defences against the Morlocks--I had matches! I had the camphor
in my pocket, too, if a blaze were needed. It seemed to me that
the best thing we could do would be to pass the night in the open,
protected by a fire. In the morning there was the getting of the
Time Machine. Towards that, as yet, I had only my iron mace. But
now, with my growing knowledge, I felt very differently towards
those bronze doors. Up to this, I had refrained from forcing them,
largely because of the mystery on the other side. They had never
impressed me as being very strong, and I hoped to find my bar of
iron not altogether inadequate for the work.




IX


'We emerged from the palace while the sun was still in part above
the horizon. I was determined to reach the White Sphinx early the
next morning, and ere the dusk I purposed pushing through the woods
that had stopped me on the previous journey. My plan was to go as
far as possible that night, and then, building a fire, to sleep
in the protection of its glare. Accordingly, as we went along I
gathered any sticks or dried grass I saw, and presently had my arms
full of such litter. Thus loaded, our progress was slower than I had
anticipated, and besides Weena was tired. And I began to suffer from
sleepiness too; so that it was full night before we reached the
wood. Upon the shrubby hill of its edge Weena would have stopped,
fearing the darkness before us; but a singular sense of impending
calamity, that should indeed have served me as a warning, drove me
onward. I had been without sleep for a night and two days, and I was
feverish and irritable. I felt sleep coming upon me, and the
Morlocks with it.

'While we hesitated, among the black bushes behind us, and dim
against their blackness, I saw three crouching figures. There was
scrub and long grass all about us, and I did not feel safe from
their insidious approach. The forest, I calculated, was rather
less than a mile across. If we could get through it to the bare
hill-side, there, as it seemed to me, was an altogether safer
resting-place; I thought that with my matches and my camphor I could
contrive to keep my path illuminated through the woods. Yet it was
evident that if I was to flourish matches with my hands I should
have to abandon my firewood; so, rather reluctantly, I put it down.
And then it came into my head that I would amaze our friends behind
by lighting it. I was to discover the atrocious folly of this
proceeding, but it came to my mind as an ingenious move for covering
our retreat.

'I don't know if you have ever thought what a rare thing flame must
be in the absence of man and in a temperate climate. The sun's
heat is rarely strong enough to burn, even when it is focused by
dewdrops, as is sometimes the case in more tropical districts.
Lightning may blast and blacken, but it rarely gives rise to
widespread fire. Decaying vegetation may occasionally smoulder with
the heat of its fermentation, but this rarely results in flame. In
this decadence, too, the art of fire-making had been forgotten on
the earth. The red tongues that went licking up my heap of wood were
an altogether new and strange thing to Weena.

'She wanted to run to it and play with it. I believe she would have
cast herself into it had I not restrained her. But I caught her up,
and in spite of her struggles, plunged boldly before me into the
wood. For a little way the glare of my fire lit the path. Looking
back presently, I could see, through the crowded stems, that from my
heap of sticks the blaze had spread to some bushes adjacent, and a
curved line of fire was creeping up the grass of the hill. I laughed
at that, and turned again to the dark trees before me. It was very
black, and Weena clung to me convulsively, but there was still, as
my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness, sufficient light for me to
avoid the stems. Overhead it was simply black, except where a gap of
remote blue sky shone down upon us here and there. I struck none of
my matches because I had no hand free. Upon my left arm I carried my
little one, in my right hand I had my iron bar.

'For some way I heard nothing but the crackling twigs under my feet,
the faint rustle of the breeze above, and my own breathing and the
throb of the blood-vessels in my ears. Then I seemed to know of a
pattering about me. I pushed on grimly. The pattering grew more
distinct, and then I caught the same queer sound and voices I had
heard in the Under-world. There were evidently several of the
Morlocks, and they were closing in upon me. Indeed, in another
minute I felt a tug at my coat, then something at my arm. And Weena
shivered violently, and became quite still.

'It was time for a match. But to get one I must put her down. I did
so, and, as I fumbled with my pocket, a struggle began in the
darkness about my knees, perfectly silent on her part and with the
same peculiar cooing sounds from the Morlocks. Soft little hands,
too, were creeping over my coat and back, touching even my neck.
Then the match scratched and fizzed. I held it flaring, and saw the
white backs of the Morlocks in flight amid the trees. I hastily took
a lump of camphor from my pocket, and prepared to light it as soon
as the match should wane. Then I looked at Weena. She was lying
clutching my feet and quite motionless, with her face to the ground.
With a sudden fright I stooped to her. She seemed scarcely to
breathe. I lit the block of camphor and flung it to the ground,
and as it split and flared up and drove back the Morlocks and the
shadows, I knelt down and lifted her. The wood behind seemed full of
the stir and murmur of a great company!

'She seemed to have fainted. I put her carefully upon my shoulder
and rose to push on, and then there came a horrible realization. In
manoeuvring with my matches and Weena, I had turned myself about
several times, and now I had not the faintest idea in what direction
lay my path. For all I knew, I might be facing back towards the
Palace of Green Porcelain. I found myself in a cold sweat. I had to
think rapidly what to do. I determined to build a fire and encamp
where we were. I put Weena, still motionless, down upon a turfy
bole, and very hastily, as my first lump of camphor waned, I began
collecting sticks and leaves. Here and there out of the darkness
round me the Morlocks' eyes shone like carbuncles.

'The camphor flickered and went out. I lit a match, and as I did so,
two white forms that had been approaching Weena dashed hastily away.
One was so blinded by the light that he came straight for me, and I
felt his bones grind under the blow of my fist. He gave a whoop of
dismay, staggered a little way, and fell down. I lit another piece
of camphor, and went on gathering my bonfire. Presently I noticed
how dry was some of the foliage above me, for since my arrival
on the Time Machine, a matter of a week, no rain had fallen. So,
instead of casting about among the trees for fallen twigs, I began
leaping up and dragging down branches. Very soon I had a choking
smoky fire of green wood and dry sticks, and could economize my
camphor. Then I turned to where Weena lay beside my iron mace. I
tried what I could to revive her, but she lay like one dead. I could
not even satisfy myself whether or not she breathed.

'Now, the smoke of the fire beat over towards me, and it must have
made me heavy of a sudden. Moreover, the vapour of camphor was in
the air. My fire would not need replenishing for an hour or so. I
felt very weary after my exertion, and sat down. The wood, too, was
full of a slumbrous murmur that I did not understand. I seemed just
to nod and open my eyes. But all was dark, and the Morlocks had
their hands upon me. Flinging off their clinging fingers I hastily
felt in my pocket for the match-box, and--it had gone! Then they
gripped and closed with me again. In a moment I knew what had
happened. I had slept, and my fire had gone out, and the bitterness
of death came over my soul. The forest seemed full of the smell of
burning wood. I was caught by the neck, by the hair, by the arms,
and pulled down. It was indescribably horrible in the darkness to
feel all these soft creatures heaped upon me. I felt as if I was in
a monstrous spider's web. I was overpowered, and went down. I felt
little teeth nipping at my neck. I rolled over, and as I did so my
hand came against my iron lever. It gave me strength. I struggled
up, shaking the human rats from me, and, holding the bar short,
I thrust where I judged their faces might be. I could feel the
succulent giving of flesh and bone under my blows, and for a moment
I was free.

'The strange exultation that so often seems to accompany hard
fighting came upon me. I knew that both I and Weena were lost, but I
determined to make the Morlocks pay for their meat. I stood with my
back to a tree, swinging the iron bar before me. The whole wood was
full of the stir and cries of them. A minute passed. Their voices
seemed to rise to a higher pitch of excitement, and their movements
grew faster. Yet none came within reach. I stood glaring at the
blackness. Then suddenly came hope. What if the Morlocks were
afraid? And close on the heels of that came a strange thing. The
darkness seemed to grow luminous. Very dimly I began to see the
Morlocks about me--three battered at my feet--and then I recognized,
with incredulous surprise, that the others were running, in an
incessant stream, as it seemed, from behind me, and away through the
wood in front. And their backs seemed no longer white, but reddish.
As I stood agape, I saw a little red spark go drifting across a gap
of starlight between the branches, and vanish. And at that I
understood the smell of burning wood, the slumbrous murmur that was
growing now into a gusty roar, the red glow, and the Morlocks'
flight.

'Stepping out from behind my tree and looking back, I saw, through
the black pillars of the nearer trees, the flames of the burning
forest. It was my first fire coming after me. With that I looked for
Weena, but she was gone. The hissing and crackling behind me, the
explosive thud as each fresh tree burst into flame, left little
time for reflection. My iron bar still gripped, I followed in the
Morlocks' path. It was a close race. Once the flames crept forward
so swiftly on my right as I ran that I was outflanked and had to
strike off to the left. But at last I emerged upon a small open
space, and as I did so, a Morlock came blundering towards me, and
past me, and went on straight into the fire!

'And now I was to see the most weird and horrible thing, I think, of
all that I beheld in that future age. This whole space was as bright
as day with the reflection of the fire. In the centre was a hillock
or tumulus, surmounted by a scorched hawthorn. Beyond this was
another arm of the burning forest, with yellow tongues already
writhing from it, completely encircling the space with a fence of
fire. Upon the hill-side were some thirty or forty Morlocks, dazzled
by the light and heat, and blundering hither and thither against
each other in their bewilderment. At first I did not realize their
blindness, and struck furiously at them with my bar, in a frenzy of
fear, as they approached me, killing one and crippling several more.
But when I had watched the gestures of one of them groping under the
hawthorn against the red sky, and heard their moans, I was assured
of their absolute helplessness and misery in the glare, and I struck
no more of them.

'Yet every now and then one would come straight towards me, setting
loose a quivering horror that made me quick to elude him. At one
time the flames died down somewhat, and I feared the foul creatures
would presently be able to see me. I was thinking of beginning the
fight by killing some of them before this should happen; but the
fire burst out again brightly, and I stayed my hand. I walked about
the hill among them and avoided them, looking for some trace of
Weena. But Weena was gone.

'At last I sat down on the summit of the hillock, and watched this
strange incredible company of blind things groping to and fro, and
making uncanny noises to each other, as the glare of the fire beat
on them. The coiling uprush of smoke streamed across the sky, and
through the rare tatters of that red canopy, remote as though they
belonged to another universe, shone the little stars. Two or three
Morlocks came blundering into me, and I drove them off with blows
of my fists, trembling as I did so.

'For the most part of that night I was persuaded it was a nightmare.
I bit myself and screamed in a passionate desire to awake. I beat
the ground with my hands, and got up and sat down again, and
wandered here and there, and again sat down. Then I would fall to
rubbing my eyes and calling upon God to let me awake. Thrice I saw
Morlocks put their heads down in a kind of agony and rush into the
flames. But, at last, above the subsiding red of the fire, above the
streaming masses of black smoke and the whitening and blackening
tree stumps, and the diminishing numbers of these dim creatures,
came the white light of the day.

'I searched again for traces of Weena, but there were none. It was
plain that they had left her poor little body in the forest. I
cannot describe how it relieved me to think that it had escaped the
awful fate to which it seemed destined. As I thought of that, I was
almost moved to begin a massacre of the helpless abominations about
me, but I contained myself. The hillock, as I have said, was a kind
of island in the forest. From its summit I could now make out
through a haze of smoke the Palace of Green Porcelain, and from that
I could get my bearings for the White Sphinx. And so, leaving the
remnant of these damned souls still going hither and thither and
moaning, as the day grew clearer, I tied some grass about my feet
and limped on across smoking ashes and among black stems, that still
pulsated internally with fire, towards the hiding-place of the Time
Machine. I walked slowly, for I was almost exhausted, as well as
lame, and I felt the intensest wretchedness for the horrible death
of little Weena. It seemed an overwhelming calamity. Now, in this
old familiar room, it is more like the sorrow of a dream than an
actual loss. But that morning it left me absolutely lonely
again--terribly alone. I began to think of this house of mine, of
this fireside, of some of you, and with such thoughts came a longing
that was pain.

'But as I walked over the smoking ashes under the bright morning
sky, I made a discovery. In my trouser pocket were still some loose
matches. The box must have leaked before it was lost.




X


'About eight or nine in the morning I came to the same seat of
yellow metal from which I had viewed the world upon the evening of
my arrival. I thought of my hasty conclusions upon that evening and
could not refrain from laughing bitterly at my confidence. Here
was the same beautiful scene, the same abundant foliage, the same
splendid palaces and magnificent ruins, the same silver river
running between its fertile banks. The gay robes of the beautiful
people moved hither and thither among the trees. Some were bathing
in exactly the place where I had saved Weena, and that suddenly gave
me a keen stab of pain. And like blots upon the landscape rose the
cupolas above the ways to the Under-world. I understood now what all
the beauty of the Over-world people covered. Very pleasant was their
day, as pleasant as the day of the cattle in the field. Like the
cattle, they knew of no enemies and provided against no needs. And
their end was the same.

'I grieved to think how brief the dream of the human intellect had
been. It had committed suicide. It had set itself steadfastly
towards comfort and ease, a balanced society with security and
permanency as its watchword, it had attained its hopes--to come
to this at last. Once, life and property must have reached almost
absolute safety. The rich had been assured of his wealth and
comfort, the toiler assured of his life and work. No doubt in that
perfect world there had been no unemployed problem, no social
question left unsolved. And a great quiet had followed.

'It is a law of nature we overlook, that intellectual versatility
is the compensation for change, danger, and trouble. An animal
perfectly in harmony with its environment is a perfect mechanism.
Nature never appeals to intelligence until habit and instinct are
useless. There is no intelligence where there is no change and no
need of change. Only those animals partake of intelligence that have
to meet a huge variety of needs and dangers.

'So, as I see it, the Upper-world man had drifted towards his
feeble prettiness, and the Under-world to mere mechanical industry.
But that perfect state had lacked one thing even for mechanical
perfection--absolute permanency. Apparently as time went on, the
feeding of the Under-world, however it was effected, had become
disjointed. Mother Necessity, who had been staved off for a
few thousand years, came back again, and she began below. The
Under-world being in contact with machinery, which, however perfect,
still needs some little thought outside habit, had probably retained
perforce rather more initiative, if less of every other human
character, than the Upper. And when other meat failed them, they
turned to what old habit had hitherto forbidden. So I say I saw it
in my last view of the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven
Hundred and One. It may be as wrong an explanation as mortal wit
could invent. It is how the thing shaped itself to me, and as that I
give it to you.

'After the fatigues, excitements, and terrors of the past days, and
in spite of my grief, this seat and the tranquil view and the warm
sunlight were very pleasant. I was very tired and sleepy, and soon
my theorizing passed into dozing. Catching myself at that, I took my
own hint, and spreading myself out upon the turf I had a long and
refreshing sleep.

'I awoke a little before sunsetting. I now felt safe against being
caught napping by the Morlocks, and, stretching myself, I came on
down the hill towards the White Sphinx. I had my crowbar in one
hand, and the other hand played with the matches in my pocket.

'And now came a most unexpected thing. As I approached the pedestal
of the sphinx I found the bronze valves were open. They had slid
down into grooves.

'At that I stopped short before them, hesitating to enter.

'Within was a small apartment, and on a raised place in the corner
of this was the Time Machine. I had the small levers in my pocket.
So here, after all my elaborate preparations for the siege of the
White Sphinx, was a meek surrender. I threw my iron bar away, almost
sorry not to use it.

'A sudden thought came into my head as I stooped towards the portal.
For once, at least, I grasped the mental operations of the Morlocks.
Suppressing a strong inclination to laugh, I stepped through the
bronze frame and up to the Time Machine. I was surprised to find it
had been carefully oiled and cleaned. I have suspected since that
the Morlocks had even partially taken it to pieces while trying in
their dim way to grasp its purpose.

'Now as I stood and examined it, finding a pleasure in the mere
touch of the contrivance, the thing I had expected happened. The
bronze panels suddenly slid up and struck the frame with a clang.
I was in the dark--trapped. So the Morlocks thought. At that I
chuckled gleefully.

'I could already hear their murmuring laughter as they came towards
me. Very calmly I tried to strike the match. I had only to fix on
the levers and depart then like a ghost. But I had overlooked one
little thing. The matches were of that abominable kind that light
only on the box.

'You may imagine how all my calm vanished. The little brutes were
close upon me. One touched me. I made a sweeping blow in the dark at
them with the levers, and began to scramble into the saddle of the
machine. Then came one hand upon me and then another. Then I had
simply to fight against their persistent fingers for my levers, and
at the same time feel for the studs over which these fitted. One,
indeed, they almost got away from me. As it slipped from my hand,
I had to butt in the dark with my head--I could hear the Morlock's
skull ring--to recover it. It was a nearer thing than the fight in
the forest, I think, this last scramble.

'But at last the lever was fitted and pulled over. The clinging
hands slipped from me. The darkness presently fell from my eyes.
I found myself in the same grey light and tumult I have already
described.




XI


'I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes
with time travelling. And this time I was not seated properly in the
saddle, but sideways and in an unstable fashion. For an indefinite
time I clung to the machine as it swayed and vibrated, quite
unheeding how I went, and when I brought myself to look at the dials
again I was amazed to find where I had arrived. One dial records
days, and another thousands of days, another millions of days, and
another thousands of millions. Now, instead of reversing the levers,
I had pulled them over so as to go forward with them, and when I
came to look at these indicators I found that the thousands hand was
sweeping round as fast as the seconds hand of a watch--into
futurity.

'As I drove on, a peculiar change crept over the appearance of
things. The palpitating greyness grew darker; then--though I was
still travelling with prodigious velocity--the blinking succession
of day and night, which was usually indicative of a slower pace,
returned, and grew more and more marked. This puzzled me very much
at first. The alternations of night and day grew slower and slower,
and so did the passage of the sun across the sky, until they seemed
to stretch through centuries. At last a steady twilight brooded over
the earth, a twilight only broken now and then when a comet glared
across the darkling sky. The band of light that had indicated the
sun had long since disappeared; for the sun had ceased to set--it
simply rose and fell in the west, and grew ever broader and more
red. All trace of the moon had vanished. The circling of the stars,
growing slower and slower, had given place to creeping points of
light. At last, some time before I stopped, the sun, red and very
large, halted motionless upon the horizon, a vast dome glowing with
a dull heat, and now and then suffering a momentary extinction. At
one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again,
but it speedily reverted to its sullen red heat. I perceived by this
slowing down of its rising and setting that the work of the tidal
drag was done. The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun,
even as in our own time the moon faces the earth. Very cautiously,
for I remembered my former headlong fall, I began to reverse
my motion. Slower and slower went the circling hands until the
thousands one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a
mere mist upon its scale. Still slower, until the dim outlines of a
desolate beach grew visible.

'I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine, looking round.
The sky was no longer blue. North-eastward it was inky black,
and out of the blackness shone brightly and steadily the pale
white stars. Overhead it was a deep Indian red and starless, and
south-eastward it grew brighter to a glowing scarlet where, cut by
the horizon, lay the huge hull of the sun, red and motionless. The
rocks about me were of a harsh reddish colour, and all the trace of
life that I could see at first was the intensely green vegetation
that covered every projecting point on their south-eastern face. It
was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss or on the
lichen in caves: plants which like these grow in a perpetual
twilight.

'The machine was standing on a sloping beach. The sea stretched away
to the south-west, to rise into a sharp bright horizon against the
wan sky. There were no breakers and no waves, for not a breath of
wind was stirring. Only a slight oily swell rose and fell like a
gentle breathing, and showed that the eternal sea was still moving
and living. And along the margin where the water sometimes broke was
a thick incrustation of salt--pink under the lurid sky. There was a
sense of oppression in my head, and I noticed that I was breathing
very fast. The sensation reminded me of my only experience of
mountaineering, and from that I judged the air to be more rarefied
than it is now.

'Far away up the desolate slope I heard a harsh scream, and saw a
thing like a huge white butterfly go slanting and fluttering up into
the sky and, circling, disappear over some low hillocks beyond. The
sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself
more firmly upon the machine. Looking round me again, I saw that,
quite near, what I had taken to be a reddish mass of rock was moving
slowly towards me. Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous
crab-like creature. Can you imagine a crab as large as yonder table,
with its many legs moving slowly and uncertainly, its big claws
swaying, its long antennae, like carters' whips, waving and feeling,
and its stalked eyes gleaming at you on either side of its metallic
front? Its back was corrugated and ornamented with ungainly bosses,
and a greenish incrustation blotched it here and there. I could see
the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling as it
moved.

'As I stared at this sinister apparition crawling towards me, I felt
a tickling on my cheek as though a fly had lighted there. I tried to
brush it away with my hand, but in a moment it returned, and almost
immediately came another by my ear. I struck at this, and caught
something threadlike. It was drawn swiftly out of my hand. With a
frightful qualm, I turned, and I saw that I had grasped the antenna
of another monster crab that stood just behind me. Its evil eyes
were wriggling on their stalks, its mouth was all alive with
appetite, and its vast ungainly claws, smeared with an algal slime,
were descending upon me. In a moment my hand was on the lever, and
I had placed a month between myself and these monsters. But I was
still on the same beach, and I saw them distinctly now as soon as I
stopped. Dozens of them seemed to be crawling here and there, in the
sombre light, among the foliated sheets of intense green.

'I cannot convey the sense of abominable desolation that hung over
the world. The red eastern sky, the northward blackness, the salt
Dead Sea, the stony beach crawling with these foul, slow-stirring
monsters, the uniform poisonous-looking green of the lichenous
plants, the thin air that hurts one's lungs: all contributed to an
appalling effect. I moved on a hundred years, and there was the same
red sun--a little larger, a little duller--the same dying sea, the
same chill air, and the same crowd of earthy crustacea creeping in
and out among the green weed and the red rocks. And in the westward
sky, I saw a curved pale line like a vast new moon.

'So I travelled, stopping ever and again, in great strides of a
thousand years or more, drawn on by the mystery of the earth's fate,
watching with a strange fascination the sun grow larger and duller
in the westward sky, and the life of the old earth ebb away. At
last, more than thirty million years hence, the huge red-hot dome of
the sun had come to obscure nearly a tenth part of the darkling
heavens. Then I stopped once more, for the crawling multitude of
crabs had disappeared, and the red beach, save for its livid green
liverworts and lichens, seemed lifeless. And now it was flecked with
white. A bitter cold assailed me. Rare white flakes ever and again
came eddying down. To the north-eastward, the glare of snow lay
under the starlight of the sable sky and I could see an undulating
crest of hillocks pinkish white. There were fringes of ice along the
sea margin, with drifting masses further out; but the main expanse
of that salt ocean, all bloody under the eternal sunset, was still
unfrozen.

'I looked about me to see if any traces of animal life remained. A
certain indefinable apprehension still kept me in the saddle of the
machine. But I saw nothing moving, in earth or sky or sea. The green
slime on the rocks alone testified that life was not extinct. A
shallow sandbank had appeared in the sea and the water had receded
from the beach. I fancied I saw some black object flopping about
upon this bank, but it became motionless as I looked at it, and I
judged that my eye had been deceived, and that the black object was
merely a rock. The stars in the sky were intensely bright and seemed
to me to twinkle very little.

'Suddenly I noticed that the circular westward outline of the sun
had changed; that a concavity, a bay, had appeared in the curve. I
saw this grow larger. For a minute perhaps I stared aghast at this
blackness that was creeping over the day, and then I realized that
an eclipse was beginning. Either the moon or the planet Mercury was
passing across the sun's disk. Naturally, at first I took it to be
the moon, but there is much to incline me to believe that what I
really saw was the transit of an inner planet passing very near to
the earth.

'The darkness grew apace; a cold wind began to blow in freshening
gusts from the east, and the showering white flakes in the air
increased in number. From the edge of the sea came a ripple and
whisper. Beyond these lifeless sounds the world was silent. Silent?
It would be hard to convey the stillness of it. All the sounds of
man, the bleating of sheep, the cries of birds, the hum of insects,
the stir that makes the background of our lives--all that was over.
As the darkness thickened, the eddying flakes grew more abundant,
dancing before my eyes; and the cold of the air more intense. At
last, one by one, swiftly, one after the other, the white peaks of
the distant hills vanished into blackness. The breeze rose to a
moaning wind. I saw the black central shadow of the eclipse sweeping
towards me. In another moment the pale stars alone were visible. All
else was rayless obscurity. The sky was absolutely black.

'A horror of this great darkness came on me. The cold, that smote
to my marrow, and the pain I felt in breathing, overcame me. I
shivered, and a deadly nausea seized me. Then like a red-hot bow
in the sky appeared the edge of the sun. I got off the machine to
recover myself. I felt giddy and incapable of facing the return
journey. As I stood sick and confused I saw again the moving thing
upon the shoal--there was no mistake now that it was a moving
thing--against the red water of the sea. It was a round thing, the
size of a football perhaps, or, it may be, bigger, and tentacles
trailed down from it; it seemed black against the weltering
blood-red water, and it was hopping fitfully about. Then I felt I
was fainting. But a terrible dread of lying helpless in that remote
and awful twilight sustained me while I clambered upon the saddle.




XII


'So I came back. For a long time I must have been insensible upon
the machine. The blinking succession of the days and nights was
resumed, the sun got golden again, the sky blue. I breathed with
greater freedom. The fluctuating contours of the land ebbed and
flowed. The hands spun backward upon the dials. At last I saw again
the dim shadows of houses, the evidences of decadent humanity.
These, too, changed and passed, and others came. Presently, when the
million dial was at zero, I slackened speed. I began to recognize
our own pretty and familiar architecture, the thousands hand ran back
to the starting-point, the night and day flapped slower and slower.
Then the old walls of the laboratory came round me. Very gently,
now, I slowed the mechanism down.

'I saw one little thing that seemed odd to me. I think I have told
you that when I set out, before my velocity became very high, Mrs.
Watchett had walked across the room, travelling, as it seemed to me,
like a rocket. As I returned, I passed again across that minute when
she traversed the laboratory. But now her every motion appeared to
be the exact inversion of her previous ones. The door at the lower
end opened, and she glided quietly up the laboratory, back foremost,
and disappeared behind the door by which she had previously entered.
Just before that I seemed to see Hillyer for a moment; but he passed
like a flash.

'Then I stopped the machine, and saw about me again the old familiar
laboratory, my tools, my appliances just as I had left them. I got
off the thing very shakily, and sat down upon my bench. For several
minutes I trembled violently. Then I became calmer. Around me was
my old workshop again, exactly as it had been. I might have slept
there, and the whole thing have been a dream.

'And yet, not exactly! The thing had started from the south-east
corner of the laboratory. It had come to rest again in the
north-west, against the wall where you saw it. That gives you the
exact distance from my little lawn to the pedestal of the White
Sphinx, into which the Morlocks had carried my machine.

'For a time my brain went stagnant. Presently I got up and came
through the passage here, limping, because my heel was still
painful, and feeling sorely begrimed. I saw the _Pall Mall Gazette_
on the table by the door. I found the date was indeed to-day, and
looking at the timepiece, saw the hour was almost eight o'clock. I
heard your voices and the clatter of plates. I hesitated--I felt so
sick and weak. Then I sniffed good wholesome meat, and opened the
door on you. You know the rest. I washed, and dined, and now I am
telling you the story.

'I know,' he said, after a pause, 'that all this will be absolutely
incredible to you. To me the one incredible thing is that I am here
to-night in this old familiar room looking into your friendly faces
and telling you these strange adventures.'

He looked at the Medical Man. 'No. I cannot expect you to believe
it. Take it as a lie--or a prophecy. Say I dreamed it in the
workshop. Consider I have been speculating upon the destinies of our
race until I have hatched this fiction. Treat my assertion of its
truth as a mere stroke of art to enhance its interest. And taking
it as a story, what do you think of it?'

He took up his pipe, and began, in his old accustomed manner, to tap
with it nervously upon the bars of the grate. There was a momentary
stillness. Then chairs began to creak and shoes to scrape upon the
carpet. I took my eyes off the Time Traveller's face, and looked
round at his audience. They were in the dark, and little spots of
colour swam before them. The Medical Man seemed absorbed in the
contemplation of our host. The Editor was looking hard at the end
of his cigar--the sixth. The Journalist fumbled for his watch. The
others, as far as I remember, were motionless.

The Editor stood up with a sigh. 'What a pity it is you're not
a writer of stories!' he said, putting his hand on the Time
Traveller's shoulder.

'You don't believe it?'

'Well----'

'I thought not.'

The Time Traveller turned to us. 'Where are the matches?' he said.
He lit one and spoke over his pipe, puffing. 'To tell you the truth
... I hardly believe it myself.... And yet...'

His eye fell with a mute inquiry upon the withered white flowers
upon the little table. Then he turned over the hand holding his
pipe, and I saw he was looking at some half-healed scars on his
knuckles.

The Medical Man rose, came to the lamp, and examined the flowers.
'The gynaeceum's odd,' he said. The Psychologist leant forward to
see, holding out his hand for a specimen.

'I'm hanged if it isn't a quarter to one,' said the Journalist.
'How shall we get home?'

'Plenty of cabs at the station,' said the Psychologist.

'It's a curious thing,' said the Medical Man; 'but I certainly don't
know the natural order of these flowers. May I have them?'

The Time Traveller hesitated. Then suddenly: 'Certainly not.'

'Where did you really get them?' said the Medical Man.

The Time Traveller put his hand to his head. He spoke like one who
was trying to keep hold of an idea that eluded him. 'They were put
into my pocket by Weena, when I travelled into Time.' He stared
round the room. 'I'm damned if it isn't all going. This room and you
and the atmosphere of every day is too much for my memory. Did I
ever make a Time Machine, or a model of a Time Machine? Or is it all
only a dream? They say life is a dream, a precious poor dream at
times--but I can't stand another that won't fit. It's madness. And
where did the dream come from? ... I must look at that machine. If
there is one!'

He caught up the lamp swiftly, and carried it, flaring red, through
the door into the corridor. We followed him. There in the flickering
light of the lamp was the machine sure enough, squat, ugly, and
askew; a thing of brass, ebony, ivory, and translucent glimmering
quartz. Solid to the touch--for I put out my hand and felt the rail
of it--and with brown spots and smears upon the ivory, and bits of
grass and moss upon the lower parts, and one rail bent awry.

The Time Traveller put the lamp down on the bench, and ran his hand
along the damaged rail. 'It's all right now,' he said. 'The story I
told you was true. I'm sorry to have brought you out here in the
cold.' He took up the lamp, and, in an absolute silence, we
returned to the smoking-room.

He came into the hall with us and helped the Editor on with his
coat. The Medical Man looked into his face and, with a certain
hesitation, told him he was suffering from overwork, at which he
laughed hugely. I remember him standing in the open doorway, bawling
good night.

I shared a cab with the Editor. He thought the tale a 'gaudy lie.'
For my own part I was unable to come to a conclusion. The story was
so fantastic and incredible, the telling so credible and sober. I
lay awake most of the night thinking about it. I determined to go
next day and see the Time Traveller again. I was told he was in the
laboratory, and being on easy terms in the house, I went up to him.
The laboratory, however, was empty. I stared for a minute at the
Time Machine and put out my hand and touched the lever. At that the
squat substantial-looking mass swayed like a bough shaken by the
wind. Its instability startled me extremely, and I had a queer
reminiscence of the childish days when I used to be forbidden to
meddle. I came back through the corridor. The Time Traveller met me
in the smoking-room. He was coming from the house. He had a small
camera under one arm and a knapsack under the other. He laughed when
he saw me, and gave me an elbow to shake. 'I'm frightfully busy,'
said he, 'with that thing in there.'

'But is it not some hoax?' I said. 'Do you really travel through
time?'

'Really and truly I do.' And he looked frankly into my eyes. He
hesitated. His eye wandered about the room. 'I only want half an
hour,' he said. 'I know why you came, and it's awfully good of you.
There's some magazines here. If you'll stop to lunch I'll prove you
this time travelling up to the hilt, specimen and all. If you'll
forgive my leaving you now?'

I consented, hardly comprehending then the full import of his words,
and he nodded and went on down the corridor. I heard the door of
the laboratory slam, seated myself in a chair, and took up a daily
paper. What was he going to do before lunch-time? Then suddenly
I was reminded by an advertisement that I had promised to meet
Richardson, the publisher, at two. I looked at my watch, and saw
that I could barely save that engagement. I got up and went down the
passage to tell the Time Traveller.

As I took hold of the handle of the door I heard an exclamation,
oddly truncated at the end, and a click and a thud. A gust of air
whirled round me as I opened the door, and from within came the
sound of broken glass falling on the floor. The Time Traveller was
not there. I seemed to see a ghostly, indistinct figure sitting in
a whirling mass of black and brass for a moment--a figure so
transparent that the bench behind with its sheets of drawings was
absolutely distinct; but this phantasm vanished as I rubbed my eyes.
The Time Machine had gone. Save for a subsiding stir of dust, the
further end of the laboratory was empty. A pane of the skylight had,
apparently, just been blown in.

I felt an unreasonable amazement. I knew that something strange had
happened, and for the moment could not distinguish what the strange
thing might be. As I stood staring, the door into the garden opened,
and the man-servant appeared.

We looked at each other. Then ideas began to come. 'Has Mr. ----
gone out that way?' said I.

'No, sir. No one has come out this way. I was expecting to find him
here.'

At that I understood. At the risk of disappointing Richardson I
stayed on, waiting for the Time Traveller; waiting for the second,
perhaps still stranger story, and the specimens and photographs he
would bring with him. But I am beginning now to fear that I must
wait a lifetime. The Time Traveller vanished three years ago. And,
as everybody knows now, he has never returned.




EPILOGUE


One cannot choose but wonder. Will he ever return? It may be that he
swept back into the past, and fell among the blood-drinking, hairy
savages of the Age of Unpolished Stone; into the abysses of the
Cretaceous Sea; or among the grotesque saurians, the huge reptilian
brutes of the Jurassic times. He may even now--if I may use the
phrase--be wandering on some plesiosaurus-haunted Oolitic coral
reef, or beside the lonely saline lakes of the Triassic Age. Or did
he go forward, into one of the nearer ages, in which men are still
men, but with the riddles of our own time answered and its wearisome
problems solved? Into the manhood of the race: for I, for my own
part, cannot think that these latter days of weak experiment,
fragmentary theory, and mutual discord are indeed man's culminating
time! I say, for my own part. He, I know--for the question had been
discussed among us long before the Time Machine was made--thought
but cheerlessly of the Advancement of Mankind, and saw in the
growing pile of civilization only a foolish heaping that must
inevitably fall back upon and destroy its makers in the end. If that
is so, it remains for us to live as though it were not so. But to me
the future is still black and blank--is a vast ignorance, lit at a
few casual places by the memory of his story. And I have by me, for
my comfort, two strange white flowers--shrivelled now, and brown and
flat and brittle--to witness that even when mind and strength had
gone, gratitude and a mutual tenderness still lived on in the heart
of man.

                                     500 BC
                               CONFUCIAN ANALECTS
                                   Confucius
                              1

  The Master "Is it not pleasant to learn with a constant perseverance
and application?
  "Is it not delightful to have friends coming from distant quarters?
  "Is he not a man of complete virtue, who feels no discomposure
though men may take no note of him?"
  The philosopher Yu said, "They are few who, being filial and
fraternal, are fond of offending against their superiors. There have
been none, who, not liking to offend against their superiors, have
been fond of stirring up confusion.
  "The superior man bends his attention to what is radical. That being
established, all practical courses naturally grow up. Filial piety and
fraternal submission,-are they not the root of all benevolent
actions?"
  The Master said, "Fine words and an insinuating appearance are
seldom associated with true virtue."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "I daily examine myself on three
points:-whether, in transacting business for others, I may have been
not faithful;-whether, in intercourse with friends, I may have been
not sincere;-whether I may have not mastered and practiced the
instructions of my teacher."
  The Master said, "To rule a country of a thousand chariots, there
must be reverent attention to business, and sincerity; economy in
expenditure, and love for men; and the employment of the people at the
proper seasons."
  The Master said, "A youth, when at home, should be filial, and,
abroad, respectful to his elders. He should be earnest and truthful.
He should overflow in love to all, and cultivate the friendship of the
good. When he has time and opportunity, after the performance of these
things, he should employ them in polite studies."
  Tsze-hsia said, "If a man withdraws his mind from the love of
beauty, and applies it as sincerely to the love of the virtuous; if,
in serving his parents, he can exert his utmost strength; if, in
serving his prince, he can devote his life; if, in his intercourse
with his friends, his words are sincere:-although men say that he
has not learned, I will certainly say that he has.
  The Master said, "If the scholar be not grave, he will not call
forth any veneration, and his learning will not be solid.
  "Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first principles.
  "Have no friends not equal to yourself.
  "When you have faults, do not fear to abandon them."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "Let there be a careful attention to
perform the funeral rites to parents, and let them be followed when
long gone with the ceremonies of sacrifice;-then the virtue of the
people will resume its proper excellence."
  Tsze-ch'in asked Tsze-kung saying, "When our master comes to any
country, he does not fail to learn all about its government. Does he
ask his information? or is it given to him?"
  Tsze-kung said, "Our master is benign, upright, courteous,
temperate, and complaisant and thus he gets his information. The
master's mode of asking information,-is it not different from that
of other men?"
  The Master said, "While a man's father is alive, look at the bent of
his will; when his father is dead, look at his conduct. If for three
years he does not alter from the way of his father, he may be called
filial."
  The philosopher Yu said, "In practicing the rules of propriety, a
natural ease is to be prized. In the ways prescribed by the ancient
kings, this is the excellent quality, and in things small and great we
follow them.
  "Yet it is not to be observed in all cases. If one, knowing how such
ease should be prized, manifests it, without regulating it by the
rules of propriety, this likewise is not to be done."
  The philosopher Yu said, "When agreements are made according to what
is right, what is spoken can be made good. When respect is shown
according to what is proper, one keeps far from shame and disgrace.
When the parties upon whom a man leans are proper persons to be
intimate with, he can make them his guides and masters."
  The Master said, "He who aims to be a man of complete virtue in
his food does not seek to gratify his appetite, nor in his dwelling
place does he seek the appliances of ease; he is earnest in what he is
doing, and careful in his speech; he frequents the company of men of
principle that he may be rectified:-such a person may be said indeed
to love to learn."
  Tsze-kung said, "What do you pronounce concerning the poor man who
yet does not flatter, and the rich man who is not proud?" The Master
replied, "They will do; but they are not equal to him, who, though
poor, is yet cheerful, and to him, who, though rich, loves the rules
of propriety."
  Tsze-kung replied, "It is said in the Book of Poetry, 'As you cut
and then file, as you carve and then polish.'-The meaning is the same,
I apprehend, as that which you have just expressed."
  The Master said, "With one like Ts'ze, I can begin to talk about the
odes. I told him one point, and he knew its proper sequence."
  The Master said, "I will not be afflicted at men's not knowing me; I
will be afflicted that I do not know men."

                              2

  The Master said, "He who exercises government by means of his virtue
may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all
the stars turn towards it."
  The Master said, "In the Book of Poetry are three hundred pieces,
but the design of them all may be embraced in one sentence 'Having
no depraved thoughts.'"
  The Master said, "If the people be led by laws, and uniformity
sought to be given them by punishments, they will try to avoid the
punishment, but have no sense of shame.
  "If they be led by virtue, and uniformity sought to be given them by
the rules of propriety, they will have the sense of shame, and
moreover will become good."
  The Master said, "At fifteen, I had my mind bent on learning.
  "At thirty, I stood firm.
  "At forty, I had no doubts.
  "At fifty, I knew the decrees of Heaven.
  "At sixty, my ear was an obedient organ for the reception of truth.
  "At seventy, I could follow what my heart desired, without
transgressing what was right."
  Mang I asked what filial piety was. The Master said, "It is not
being disobedient."
  Soon after, as Fan Ch'ih was driving him, the Master told him,
saying, "Mang-sun asked me what filial piety was, and I answered
him,-'not being disobedient.'"
  Fan Ch'ih said, "What did you mean?" The Master replied, "That
parents, when alive, be served according to propriety; that, when
dead, they should be buried according to propriety; and that they
should be sacrificed to according to propriety."
  Mang Wu asked what filial piety was. The Master said, "Parents are
anxious lest their children should be sick."
  Tsze-yu asked what filial piety was. The Master said, "The filial
piety nowadays means the support of one's parents. But dogs and horses
likewise are able to do something in the way of support;-without
reverence, what is there to distinguish the one support given from the
other?"
  Tsze-hsia asked what filial piety was. The Master said, "The
difficulty is with the countenance. If, when their elders have any
troublesome affairs, the young take the toil of them, and if, when the
young have wine and food, they set them before their elders, is THIS
to be considered filial piety?"
  The Master said, "I have talked with Hui for a whole day, and he has
not made any objection to anything I said;-as if he were stupid. He
has retired, and I have examined his conduct when away from me, and
found him able to illustrate my teachings. Hui!-He is not stupid."
  The Master said, "See what a man does.
  "Mark his motives.
  "Examine in what things he rests.
  "How can a man conceal his character? How can a man conceal his
character?"
  The Master said, "If a man keeps cherishing his old knowledge, so as
continually to be acquiring new, he may be a teacher of others."
  The Master said, "The accomplished scholar is not a utensil."
  Tsze-kung asked what constituted the superior man. The Master
said, "He acts before he speaks, and afterwards speaks according to
his actions."
  The Master said, "The superior man is catholic and not partisan. The
mean man is partisan and not catholic."
  The Master said, "Learning without thought is labor lost; thought
without learning is perilous."
  The Master said, "The study of strange doctrines is injurious
indeed!"
  The Master said, "Yu, shall I teach you what knowledge is? When
you know a thing, to hold that you know it; and when you do not know a
thing, to allow that you do not know it;-this is knowledge."
  Tsze-chang was learning with a view to official emolument.
  The Master said, "Hear much and put aside the points of which you
stand in doubt, while you speak cautiously at the same time of the
others:-then you will afford few occasions for blame. See much and put
aside the things which seem perilous, while you are cautious at the
same time in carrying the others into practice: then you will have few
occasions for repentance. When one gives few occasions for blame in
his words, and few occasions for repentance in his conduct, he is in
the way to get emolument."
  The Duke Ai asked, saying, "What should be done in order to secure
the submission of the people?" Confucius replied, "Advance the upright
and set aside the crooked, then the people will submit. Advance the
crooked and set aside the upright, then the people will not submit."
  Chi K'ang asked how to cause the people to reverence their ruler, to
be faithful to him, and to go on to nerve themselves to virtue. The
Master said, "Let him preside over them with gravity;-then they will
reverence him. Let him be final and kind to all;-then they will be
faithful to him. Let him advance the good and teach the
incompetent;-then they will eagerly seek to be virtuous."
  Some one addressed Confucius, saying, "Sir, why are you not
engaged in the government?"
  The Master said, "What does the Shu-ching say of filial
piety?-'You are final, you discharge your brotherly duties. These
qualities are displayed in government.' This then also constitutes the
exercise of government. Why must there be THAT-making one be in the
government?"
  The Master said, "I do not know how a man without truthfulness is to
get on. How can a large carriage be made to go without the crossbar
for yoking the oxen to, or a small carriage without the arrangement
for yoking the horses?"
  Tsze-chang asked whether the affairs of ten ages after could be
known.
  Confucius said, "The Yin dynasty followed the regulations of the
Hsia: wherein it took from or added to them may be known. The Chau
dynasty has followed the regulations of Yin: wherein it took from or
added to them may be known. Some other may follow the Chau, but though
it should be at the distance of a hundred ages, its affairs may be
known."
  The Master said, "For a man to sacrifice to a spirit which does
not belong to him is flattery.
  "To see what is right and not to do it is want of courage."

                              3

  Confucius said of the head of the Chi family, who had eight rows
of pantomimes in his area, "If he can bear to do this, what may he not
bear to do?"
  The three families used the Yungode, while the vessels were being
removed, at the conclusion of the sacrifice. The Master said,
"'Assisting are the princes;-the son of heaven looks profound and
grave';-what application can these words have in the hall of the three
families?"
  The Master said, "If a man be without the virtues proper to
humanity, what has he to do with the rites of propriety? If a man be
without the virtues proper to humanity, what has he to do with music?"
  Lin Fang asked what was the first thing to be attended to in
ceremonies.
  The Master said, "A great question indeed!
  "In festive ceremonies, it is better to be sparing than extravagant.
In the ceremonies of mourning, it is better that there be deep
sorrow than in minute attention to observances."
  The Master said, "The rude tribes of the east and north have their
princes, and are not like the States of our great land which are
without them."
  The chief of the Chi family was about to sacrifice to the T'ai
mountain. The Master said to Zan Yu, "Can you not save him from this?"
He answered, "I cannot." Confucius said, "Alas! will you say that
the T'ai mountain is not so discerning as Lin Fang?"
  The Master said, "The student of virtue has no contentions. If it be
said he cannot avoid them, shall this be in archery? But he bows
complaisantly to his competitors; thus he ascends the hall,
descends, and exacts the forfeit of drinking. In his contention, he is
still the Chun-tsze."
  Tsze-hsia asked, saying, "What is the meaning of the passage-'The
pretty dimples of her artful smile! The well-defined black and white
of her eye! The plain ground for the colors?'"
  The Master said, "The business of laying on the colors follows the
preparation of the plain ground."
  "Ceremonies then are a subsequent thing?" The Master said, "It is
Shang who can bring out my meaning. Now I can begin to talk about
the odes with him."
  The Master said, "I could describe the ceremonies of the Hsia
dynasty, but Chi cannot sufficiently attest my words. I could describe
the ceremonies of the Yin dynasty, but Sung cannot sufficiently attest
my words. They cannot do so because of the insufficiency of their
records and wise men. If those were sufficient, I could adduce them in
support of my words."
  The Master said, "At the great sacrifice, after the pouring out of
the libation, I have no wish to look on."
  Some one asked the meaning of the great sacrifice. The Master
said, "I do not know. He who knew its meaning would find it as easy to
govern the kingdom as to look on this"-pointing to his palm.
  He sacrificed to the dead, as if they were present. He sacrificed to
the spirits, as if the spirits were present.
  The Master said, "I consider my not being present at the
sacrifice, as if I did not sacrifice."
  Wang-sun Chia asked, saying, "What is the meaning of the saying, 'It
is better to pay court to the furnace then to the southwest corner?'"
  The Master said, "Not so. He who offends against Heaven has none
to whom he can pray."
  The Master said, "Chau had the advantage of viewing the two past
dynasties. How complete and elegant are its regulations! I follow
Chau."
  The Master, when he entered the grand temple, asked about
everything. Some one said, "Who say that the son of the man of Tsau
knows the rules of propriety! He has entered the grand temple and asks
about everything." The Master heard the remark, and said, "This is a
rule of propriety."
  The Master said, "In archery it is not going through the leather
which is the principal thing;-because people's strength is not
equal. This was the old way."
  Tsze-kung wished to do away with the offering of a sheep connected
with the inauguration of the first day of each month.
  The Master said, "Ts'ze, you love the sheep; I love the ceremony."
  The Master said, "The full observance of the rules of propriety in
serving one's prince is accounted by people to be flattery."
  The Duke Ting asked how a prince should employ his ministers, and
how ministers should serve their prince. Confucius replied, "A
prince should employ his minister according to according to the
rules of propriety; ministers should serve their prince with
faithfulness."
  The Master said, "The Kwan Tsu is expressive of enjoyment without
being licentious, and of grief without being hurtfully excessive."
  The Duke Ai asked Tsai Wo about the altars of the spirits of the
land. Tsai Wo replied, "The Hsia sovereign planted the pine tree about
them; the men of the Yin planted the cypress; and the men of the
Chau planted the chestnut tree, meaning thereby to cause the people to
be in awe."
  When the Master heard it, he said, "Things that are done, it is
needless to speak about; things that have had their course, it is
needless to remonstrate about; things that are past, it is needless to
blame."
  The Master said, "Small indeed was the capacity of Kwan Chung!"
  Some one said, "Was Kwan Chung parsimonious?" "Kwan," was the reply,
"had the San Kwei, and his officers performed no double duties; how
can he be considered parsimonious?"
  "Then, did Kwan Chung know the rules of propriety?" The Master said,
"The princes of States have a screen intercepting the view at their
gates. Kwan had likewise a screen at his gate. The princes of States
on any friendly meeting between two of them, had a stand on which to
place their inverted cups. Kwan had also such a stand. If Kwan knew
the rules of propriety, who does not know them?"
  The Master instructing the grand music master of Lu said, "How to
play music may be known. At the commencement of the piece, all the
parts should sound together. As it proceeds, they should be in harmony
while severally distinct and flowing without break, and thus on to the
conclusion."
  The border warden at Yi requested to be introduced to the Master,
saying, "When men of superior virtue have come to this, I have never
been denied the privilege of seeing them." The followers of the sage
introduced him, and when he came out from the interview, he said,
"My friends, why are you distressed by your master's loss of office?
The kingdom has long been without the principles of truth and right;
Heaven is going to use your master as a bell with its wooden tongue."
  The Master said of the Shao that it was perfectly beautiful and also
perfectly good. He said of the Wu that it was perfectly beautiful
but not perfectly good.
  The Master said, "High station filled without indulgent
generosity; ceremonies performed without reverence; mourning conducted
without sorrow;-wherewith should I contemplate such ways?"

                              4

  The Master said, "It is virtuous manners which constitute the
excellence of a neighborhood. If a man in selecting a residence do not
fix on one where such prevail, how can he be wise?"
  The Master said, "Those who are without virtue cannot abide long
either in a condition of poverty and hardship, or in a condition of
enjoyment. The virtuous rest in virtue; the wise desire virtue."
  The Master said, "It is only the truly virtuous man, who can love,
or who can hate, others."
  The Master said, "If the will be set on virtue, there will be no
practice of wickedness."
  The Master said, "Riches and honors are what men desire. If they
cannot be obtained in the proper way, they should not be held. Poverty
and meanness are what men dislike. If they cannot be avoided in the
proper way, they should not be avoided.
  "If a superior man abandon virtue, how can he fulfill the
requirements of that name?
  "The superior man does not, even for the space of a single meal, act
contrary to virtue. In moments of haste, he cleaves to it. In
seasons of danger, he cleaves to it."
  The Master said, "I have not seen a person who loved virtue, or
one who hated what was not virtuous. He who loved virtue, would esteem
nothing above it. He who hated what is not virtuous, would practice
virtue in such a way that he would not allow anything that is not
virtuous to approach his person.
  "Is any one able for one day to apply his strength to virtue? I have
not seen the case in which his strength would be insufficient.
  "Should there possibly be any such case, I have not seen it."
  The Master said, "The faults of men are characteristic of the
class to which they belong. By observing a man's faults, it may be
known that he is virtuous."
  The Master said, "If a man in the morning hear the right way, he may
die in the evening hear regret."
  The Master said, "A scholar, whose mind is set on truth, and who
is ashamed of bad clothes and bad food, is not fit to be discoursed
with."
  The Master said, "The superior man, in the world, does not set his
mind either for anything, or against anything; what is right he will
follow."
  The Master said, "The superior man thinks of virtue; the small man
thinks of comfort. The superior man thinks of the sanctions of law;
the small man thinks of favors which he may receive."
  The Master said: "He who acts with a constant view to his own
advantage will be much murmured against."
  The Master said, "If a prince is able to govern his kingdom with the
complaisance proper to the rules of propriety, what difficulty will he
have? If he cannot govern it with that complaisance, what has he to do
with the rules of propriety?"
  The Master said, "A man should say, I am not concerned that I have
no place, I am concerned how I may fit myself for one. I am not
concerned that I am not known, I seek to be worthy to be known."
  The Master said, "Shan, my doctrine is that of an all-pervading
unity." The disciple Tsang replied, "Yes."
  The Master went out, and the other disciples asked, saying, "What do
his words mean?" Tsang said, "The doctrine of our master is to be true
to the principles-of our nature and the benevolent exercise of them to
others,-this and nothing more."
  The Master said, "The mind of the superior man is conversant with
righteousness; the mind of the mean man is conversant with gain."
  The Master said, "When we see men of worth, we should think of
equaling them; when we see men of a contrary character, we should turn
inwards and examine ourselves."
  The Master said, "In serving his parents, a son may remonstrate with
them, but gently; when he sees that they do not incline to follow
his advice, he shows an increased degree of reverence, but does not
abandon his purpose; and should they punish him, he does not allow
himself to murmur."
  The Master said, "While his parents are alive, the son may not go
abroad to a distance. If he does go abroad, he must have a fixed place
to which he goes."
  The Master said, "If the son for three years does not alter from the
way of his father, he may be called filial."
  The Master said, "The years of parents may by no means not be kept
in the memory, as an occasion at once for joy and for fear."
  The Master said, "The reason why the ancients did not readily give
utterance to their words, was that they feared lest their actions
should not come up to them."
  The Master said, "The cautious seldom err."
  The Master said, "The superior man wishes to be slow in his speech
and earnest in his conduct."
  The Master said, "Virtue is not left to stand alone. He who
practices it will have neighbors."
  Tsze-yu said, "In serving a prince, frequent remonstrances lead to
disgrace. Between friends, frequent reproofs make the friendship
distant."

                              5

  The Master said of Kung-ye Ch'ang that he might be wived; although
he was put in bonds, he had not been guilty of any crime. Accordingly,
he gave him his own daughter to wife.
  Of Nan Yung he said that if the country were well governed he
would not be out of office, and if it were in governed, he would
escape punishment and disgrace. He gave him the daughter of his own
elder brother to wife.
  The Master said of Tsze-chien, "Of superior virtue indeed is such
a man! If there were not virtuous men in Lu, how could this man have
acquired this character?"
  Tsze-kung asked, "What do you say of me, Ts'ze!" The Master said,
"You are a utensil." "What utensil?" "A gemmed sacrificial utensil."
  Some one said, "Yung is truly virtuous, but he is not ready with his
tongue."
  The Master said, "What is the good of being ready with the tongue?
They who encounter men with smartness of speech for the most part
procure themselves hatred. I know not whether he be truly virtuous,
but why should he show readiness of the tongue?"
  The Master was wishing Ch'i-tiao K'ai to enter an official
employment. He replied, "I am not yet able to rest in the assurance of
this." The Master was pleased.
  The Master said, "My doctrines make no way. I will get upon a
raft, and float about on the sea. He that will accompany me will be
Yu, I dare say." Tsze-lu hearing this was glad, upon which the
Master said, "Yu is fonder of daring than I am. He does not exercise
his judgment upon matters."
  Mang Wu asked about Tsze-lu, whether he was perfectly virtuous.
The Master said, "I do not know."
  He asked again, when the Master replied, "In a kingdom of a thousand
chariots, Yu might be employed to manage the military levies, but I do
not know whether he be perfectly virtuous."
  "And what do you say of Ch'iu?" The Master replied, "In a city of
a thousand families, or a clan of a hundred chariots, Ch'iu might be
employed as governor, but I do not know whether he is perfectly
virtuous."
  "What do you say of Ch'ih?" The Master replied, "With his sash
girt and standing in a court, Ch'ih might be employed to converse with
the visitors and guests, but I do not know whether he is perfectly
virtuous."
  The Master said to Tsze-kung, "Which do you consider superior,
yourself or Hui?"
  Tsze-kung replied, "How dare I compare myself with Hui? Hui hears
one point and knows all about a subject; I hear one point, and know
a second."
  The Master said, "You are not equal to him. I grant you, you are not
equal to him."
  Tsai Yu being asleep during the daytime, the Master said, "Rotten
wood cannot be carved; a wall of dirty earth will not receive the
trowel. This Yu,-what is the use of my reproving him?"
  The Master said, "At first, my way with men was to hear their words,
and give them credit for their conduct. Now my way is to hear their
words, and look at their conduct. It is from Yu that I have learned to
make this change."
  The Master said, "I have not seen a firm and unbending man." Some
one replied, "There is Shan Ch'ang." "Ch'ang," said the Master, "is
under the influence of his passions; how can he be pronounced firm and
unbending?"
  Tsze-kung said, "What I do not wish men to do to me, I also wish not
to do to men." The Master said, "Ts'ze, you have not attained to
that."
  Tsze-kung said, "The Master's personal displays of his principles
and ordinary descriptions of them may be heard. His discourses about
man's nature, and the way of Heaven, cannot be heard."
  When Tsze-lu heard anything, if he had not yet succeeded in carrying
it into practice, he was only afraid lest he should hear something
else.
  Tsze-kung asked, saying, "On what ground did Kung-wan get that title
of Wan?"
  The Master said, "He was of an active nature and yet fond of
learning, and he was not ashamed to ask and learn of his inferiors!-On
these grounds he has been styled Wan."
  The Master said of Tsze-ch'an that he had four of the
characteristics of a superior man-in his conduct of himself, he was
humble; in serving his superior, he was respectful; in nourishing
the people, he was kind; in ordering the people, he was just."
  The Master said, "Yen P'ing knew well how to maintain friendly
intercourse. The acquaintance might be long, but he showed the same
respect as at first."
  The Master said, "Tsang Wan kept a large tortoise in a house, on the
capitals of the pillars of which he had hills made, and with
representations of duckweed on the small pillars above the beams
supporting the rafters.-Of what sort was his wisdom?"
  Tsze-chang asked, saying, "The minister Tsze-wan thrice took office,
and manifested no joy in his countenance. Thrice he retired from
office, and manifested no displeasure. He made it a point to inform
the new minister of the way in which he had conducted the
government; what do you say of him?" The Master replied. "He was
loyal." "Was he perfectly virtuous?" "I do not know. How can he be
pronounced perfectly virtuous?"
  Tsze-chang proceeded, "When the officer Ch'ui killed the prince of
Ch'i, Ch'an Wan, though he was the owner of forty horses, abandoned
them and left the country. Coming to another state, he said, 'They are
here like our great officer, Ch'ui,' and left it. He came to a
second state, and with the same observation left it also;-what do
you say of him?" The Master replied, "He was pure." "Was he
perfectly virtuous?" "I do not know. How can he be pronounced
perfectly virtuous?"
  Chi Wan thought thrice, and then acted. When the Master was informed
of it, he said, "Twice may do."
  The Master said, "When good order prevailed in his country, Ning
Wu acted the part of a wise man. When his country was in disorder,
he acted the part of a stupid man. Others may equal his wisdom, but
they cannot equal his stupidity."
  When the Master was in Ch'an, he said, "Let me return! Let me
return! The little children of my school are ambitious and too
hasty. They are accomplished and complete so far, but they do not know
how to restrict and shape themselves."
  The Master said, "Po-i and Shu-ch'i did not keep the former
wickednesses of men in mind, and hence the resentments directed
towards them were few."
  The Master said, "Who says of Weishang Kao that he is upright? One
begged some vinegar of him, and he begged it of a neighbor and gave it
to the man."
  The Master said, "Fine words, an insinuating appearance, and
excessive respect;-Tso Ch'iu-ming was ashamed of them. I also am
ashamed of them. To conceal resentment against a person, and appear
friendly with him;-Tso Ch'iu-ming was ashamed of such conduct. I
also am ashamed of it."
  Yen Yuan and Chi Lu being by his side, the Master said to them,
"Come, let each of you tell his wishes."
  Tsze-lu said, "I should like, having chariots and horses, and
light fur clothes, to share them with my friends, and though they
should spoil them, I would not be displeased."
  Yen Yuan said, "I should like not to boast of my excellence, nor
to make a display of my meritorious deeds."
  Tsze-lu then said, "I should like, sir, to hear your wishes." The
Master said, "They are, in regard to the aged, to give them rest; in
regard to friends, to show them sincerity; in regard to the young,
to treat them tenderly."
  The Master said, "It is all over. I have not yet seen one who
could perceive his faults, and inwardly accuse himself."
  The Master said, "In a hamlet of ten families, there may be found
one honorable and sincere as I am, but not so fond of learning."

                              6

  The Master said, "There is Yung!-He might occupy the place of a
prince."
  Chung-kung asked about Tsze-sang Po-tsze. The Master said, "He may
pass. He does not mind small matters."
  Chung-kung said, "If a man cherish in himself a reverential
feeling of the necessity of attention to business, though he may be
easy in small matters in his government of the people, that may be
allowed. But if he cherish in himself that easy feeling, and also
carry it out in his practice, is not such an easymode of procedure
excessive?"
  The Master said, "Yung's words are right."
  The Duke Ai asked which of the disciples loved to learn.
  Confucius replied to him, "There was Yen Hui; he loved to learn.
He did not transfer his anger; he did not repeat a fault.
Unfortunately, his appointed time was short and he died; and now there
is not such another. I have not yet heard of any one who loves to
learn as he did."
  Tsze-hwa being employed on a mission to Ch'i, the disciple Zan
requested grain for his mother. The Master said, "Give her a fu."
Yen requested more. "Give her a yi," said the Master. Yen gave her
five ping.
  The Master said, "When Ch'ih was proceeding to Ch'i, he had fat
horses to his carriage, and wore light furs. I have heard that a
superior man helps the distressed, but does not add to the wealth of
the rich."
  Yuan Sze being made governor of his town by the Master, he gave
him nine hundred measures of grain, but Sze declined them.
  The Master said, "Do not decline them. May you not give them away in
the neighborhoods, hamlets, towns, and villages?"
  The Master, speaking of Chung-kung, said, "If the calf of a brindled
cow be red and homed, although men may not wish to use it, would the
spirits of the mountains and rivers put it aside?"
  The Master said, "Such was Hui that for three months there would
be nothing in his mind contrary to perfect virtue. The others may
attain to this on some days or in some months, but nothing more."
  Chi K'ang asked about Chung-yu, whether he was fit to be employed as
an officer of government. The Master said, "Yu is a man of decision;
what difficulty would he find in being an officer of government?"
K'ang asked, "Is Ts'ze fit to be employed as an officer of
government?" and was answered, "Ts'ze is a man of intelligence; what
difficulty would he find in being an officer of government?" And to
the same question about Ch'iu the Master gave the same reply,
saying, "Ch'iu is a man of various ability."
  The chief of the Chi family sent to ask Min Tsze-ch'ien to be
governor of Pi. Min Tszech'ien said, "Decline the offer for me
politely. If any one come again to me with a second invitation, I
shall be obliged to go and live on the banks of the Wan."
  Po-niu being ill, the Master went to ask for him. He took hold of
his hand through the window, and said, "It is killing him. It is the
appointment of Heaven, alas! That such a man should have such a
sickness! That such a man should have such a sickness!"
  The Master said, "Admirable indeed was the virtue of Hui! With a
single bamboo dish of rice, a single gourd dish of drink, and living
in his mean narrow lane, while others could not have endured the
distress, he did not allow his joy to be affected by it. Admirable
indeed was the virtue of Hui!"
  Yen Ch'iu said, "It is not that I do not delight in your
doctrines, but my strength is insufficient." The Master said, "Those
whose strength is insufficient give over in the middle of the way
but now you limit yourself."
  The Master said to Tsze-hsia, "Do you be a scholar after the style
of the superior man, and not after that of the mean man."
  Tsze-yu being governor of Wu-ch'ang, the Master said to him, "Have
you got good men there?" He answered, "There is Tan-t'ai Miehming, who
never in walking takes a short cut, and never comes to my office,
excepting on public business."
  The Master said, "Mang Chih-fan does not boast of his merit. Being
in the rear on an occasion of flight, when they were about to enter
the gate, he whipped up his horse, saying, "It is not that I dare to
be last. My horse would not advance."
  The Master said, "Without the specious speech of the litanist T'o
and the beauty of the prince Chao of Sung, it is difficult to escape
in the present age."
  The Master said, "Who can go out but by the door? How is it that men
will not walk according to these ways?"
  The Master said, "Where the solid qualities are in excess of
accomplishments, we have rusticity; where the accomplishments are in
excess of the solid qualities, we have the manners of a clerk. When
the accomplishments and solid qualities are equally blended, we then
have the man of virtue."
  The Master said, "Man is born for uprightness. If a man lose his
uprightness, and yet live, his escape from death is the effect of mere
good fortune."
  The Master said, "They who know the truth are not equal to those who
love it, and they who love it are not equal to those who delight in
it."
  The Master said, "To those whose talents are above mediocrity, the
highest subjects may be announced. To those who are below
mediocrity, the highest subjects may not be announced."
  Fan Ch'ih asked what constituted wisdom. The Master said, "To give
one's self earnestly to the duties due to men, and, while respecting
spiritual beings, to keep aloof from them, may be called wisdom." He
asked about perfect virtue. The Master said, "The man of virtue
makes the difficulty to be overcome his first business, and success
only a subsequent consideration;-this may be called perfect virtue."
  The Master said, "The wise find pleasure in water; the virtuous find
pleasure in hills. The wise are active; the virtuous are tranquil. The
wise are joyful; the virtuous are long-lived."
  The Master said, "Ch'i, by one change, would come to the State of
Lu. Lu, by one change, would come to a State where true principles
predominated."
  The Master said, "A cornered vessel without corners-a strange
cornered vessel! A strange cornered vessel!"
  Tsai Wo asked, saying, "A benevolent man, though it be told
him,-'There is a man in the well" will go in after him, I suppose."
Confucius said, "Why should he do so?" A superior man may be made to
go to the well, but he cannot be made to go down into it. He may be
imposed upon, but he cannot be fooled."
  The Master said, "The superior man, extensively studying all
learning, and keeping himself under the restraint of the rules of
propriety, may thus likewise not overstep what is right."
  The Master having visited Nan-tsze, Tsze-lu was displeased, on which
the Master swore, saying, "Wherein I have done improperly, may
Heaven reject me, may Heaven reject me!"
  The Master said, "Perfect is the virtue which is according to the
Constant Mean! Rare for a long time has been its practice among the
people."
  Tsze-kung said, "Suppose the case of a man extensively conferring
benefits on the people, and able to assist all, what would you say
of him? Might he be called perfectly virtuous?" The Master said,
"Why speak only of virtue in connection with him? Must he not have the
qualities of a sage? Even Yao and Shun were still solicitous about
this.
  "Now the man of perfect virtue, wishing to be established himself,
seeks also to establish others; wishing to be enlarged himself, he
seeks also to enlarge others.
  "To be able to judge of others by what is nigh in ourselves;-this
may be called the art of virtue."

                              7

  The Master said, "A transmitter and not a maker, believing in and
loving the ancients, I venture to compare myself with our old P'ang."
  The Master said, "The silent treasuring up of knowledge; learning
without satiety; and instructing others without being wearied:-which
one of these things belongs to me?"
  The Master said, "The leaving virtue without proper cultivation; the
not thoroughly discussing what is learned; not being able to move
towards righteousness of which a knowledge is gained; and not being
able to change what is not good:-these are the things which occasion
me solicitude."
  When the Master was unoccupied with business, his manner was easy,
and he looked pleased.
  The Master said, "Extreme is my decay. For a long time, I have not
dreamed, as I was wont to do, that I saw the duke of Chau."
  The Master said, "Let the will be set on the path of duty.
  "Let every attainment in what is good be firmly grasped.
  "Let perfect virtue be accorded with.
  "Let relaxation and enjoyment be found in the polite arts."
  The Master said, "From the man bringing his bundle of dried flesh
for my teaching upwards, I have never refused instruction to any one."
  The Master said, "I do not open up the truth to one who is not eager
to get knowledge, nor help out any one who is not anxious to explain
himself. When I have presented one corner of a subject to any one, and
he cannot from it learn the other three, I do not repeat my lesson."
  When the Master was eating by the side of a mourner, he never ate to
the full.
  He did not sing on the same day in which he had been weeping.
  The Master said to Yen Yuan, "When called to office, to undertake
its duties; when not so called, to he retired;-it is only I and you
who have attained to this."
  Tsze-lu said, "If you had the conduct of the armies of a great
state, whom would you have to act with you?"
  The Master said, "I would not have him to act with me, who will
unarmed attack a tiger, or cross a river without a boat, dying without
any regret. My associate must be the man who proceeds to action full
of solicitude, who is fond of adjusting his plans, and then carries
them into execution."
  The Master said, "If the search for riches is sure to be successful,
though I should become a groom with whip in hand to get them, I will
do so. As the search may not be successful, I will follow after that
which I love."
  The things in reference to which the Master exercised the greatest
caution were-fasting, war, and sickness.
  When the Master was in Ch'i, he heard the Shao, and for three months
did not know the taste of flesh. "I did not think'" he said, "that
music could have been made so excellent as this."
  Yen Yu said, "Is our Master for the ruler of Wei?" Tsze-kung said,
"Oh! I will ask him."
  He went in accordingly, and said, "What sort of men were Po-i and
Shu-ch'i?" "They were ancient worthies," said the Master. "Did they
have any repinings because of their course?" The Master again replied,
"They sought to act virtuously, and they did so; what was there for
them to repine about?" On this, Tsze-kung went out and said, "Our
Master is not for him."
  The Master said, "With coarse rice to eat, with water to drink,
and my bended arm for a pillow;-I have still joy in the midst of these
things. Riches and honors acquired by unrighteousness, are to me as
a floating cloud."
  The Master said, "If some years were added to my life, I would
give fifty to the study of the Yi, and then I might come to be without
great faults."
  The Master's frequent themes of discourse were-the Odes, the
History, and the maintenance of the Rules of Propriety. On all these
he frequently discoursed.
  The Duke of Sheh asked Tsze-lu about Confucius, and Tsze-lu did
not answer him.
  The Master said, "Why did you not say to him,-He is simply a man,
who in his eager pursuit of knowledge forgets his food, who in the joy
of its attainment forgets his sorrows, and who does not perceive
that old age is coming on?"
  The Master said, "I am not one who was born in the possession of
knowledge; I am one who is fond of antiquity, and earnest in seeking
it there."
  The subjects on which the Master did not talk, were-extraordinary
things, feats of strength, disorder, and spiritual beings.
  The Master said, "When I walk along with two others, they may
serve me as my teachers. I will select their good qualities and follow
them, their bad qualities and avoid them."
  The Master said, "Heaven produced the virtue that is in me. Hwan
T'ui-what can he do to me?"
  The Master said, "Do you think, my disciples, that I have any
concealments? I conceal nothing from you. There is nothing which I
do that is not shown to you, my disciples; that is my way."
  There were four things which the Master taught,-letters, ethics,
devotion of soul, and truthfulness.
  The Master said, "A sage it is not mine to see; could I see a man of
real talent and virtue, that would satisfy me."
  The Master said, "A good man it is not mine to see; could I see a
man possessed of constancy, that would satisfy me.
  "Having not and yet affecting to have, empty and yet affecting to be
full, straitened and yet affecting to be at ease:-it is difficult with
such characteristics to have constancy."
  The Master angled,-but did not use a net. He shot,-but not at
birds perching.
  The Master said, "There may be those who act without knowing why.
I do not do so. Hearing much and selecting what is good and
following it; seeing much and keeping it in memory: this is the second
style of knowledge."
  It was difficult to talk profitably and reputably with the people of
Hu-hsiang, and a lad of that place having had an interview with the
Master, the disciples doubted.
  The Master said, "I admit people's approach to me without committing
myself as to what they may do when they have retired. Why must one
be so severe? If a man purify himself to wait upon me, I receive him
so purified, without guaranteeing his past conduct."
  The Master said, "Is virtue a thing remote? I wish to be virtuous,
and lo! virtue is at hand."
  The minister of crime of Ch'an asked whether the duke Chao knew
propriety, and Confucius said, "He knew propriety."
  Confucius having retired, the minister bowed to Wu-ma Ch'i to come
forward, and said, "I have heard that the superior man is not a
partisan. May the superior man be a partisan also? The prince
married a daughter of the house of WU, of the same surname with
himself, and called her,-'The elder Tsze of Wu.' If the prince knew
propriety, who does not know it?"
  Wu-ma Ch'i reported these remarks, and the Master said, "I am
fortunate! If I have any errors, people are sure to know them."
  When the Master was in company with a person who was singing, if
he sang well, he would make him repeat the song, while he
accompanied it with his own voice.
  The Master said, "In letters I am perhaps equal to other men, but
the character of the superior man, carrying out in his conduct what he
professes, is what I have not yet attained to."
  The Master said, "The sage and the man of perfect virtue;-how dare I
rank myself with them? It may simply be said of me, that I strive to
become such without satiety, and teach others without weariness."
Kung-hsi Hwa said, "This is just what we, the disciples, cannot
imitate you in."
  The Master being very sick, Tsze-lu asked leave to pray for him.
He said, "May such a thing be done?" Tsze-lu replied, "It may. In
the Eulogies it is said, 'Prayer has been made for thee to the spirits
of the upper and lower worlds.'" The Master said, "My praying has been
for a long time."
  The Master said, "Extravagance leads to insubordination, and
parsimony to meanness. It is better to be mean than to be
insubordinate."
  The Master said, "The superior man is satisfied and composed; the
mean man is always full of distress."
  The Master was mild, and yet dignified; majestic, and yet not
fierce; respectful, and yet easy.

                              8

  The Master said, "T'ai-po may be said to have reached the highest
point of virtuous action. Thrice he declined the kingdom, and the
people in ignorance of his motives could not express their approbation
of his conduct."
  The Master said, "Respectfulness, without the rules of propriety,
becomes laborious bustle; carefulness, without the rules of propriety,
becomes timidity; boldness, without the rules of propriety, becomes
insubordination; straightforwardness, without the rules of
propriety, becomes rudeness.
  "When those who are in high stations perform well all their duties
to their relations, the people are aroused to virtue. When old friends
are not neglected by them, the people are preserved from meanness."
  The philosopher Tsang being ill, he cared to him the disciples of
his school, and said, "Uncover my feet, uncover my hands. It is said
in the Book of Poetry, 'We should be apprehensive and cautious, as
if on the brink of a deep gulf, as if treading on thin ice, I and so
have I been. Now and hereafter, I know my escape from all injury to my
person. O ye, my little children."
  The philosopher Tsang being ill, Meng Chang went to ask how he was.
  Tsang said to him, "When a bird is about to die, its notes are
mournful; when a man is about to die, his words are good.
  "There are three principles of conduct which the man of high rank
should consider specially important:-that in his deportment and manner
he keep from violence and heedlessness; that in regulating his
countenance he keep near to sincerity; and that in his words and tones
he keep far from lowness and impropriety. As to such matters as
attending to the sacrificial vessels, there are the proper officers
for them."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "Gifted with ability, and yet putting
questions to those who were not so; possessed of much, and yet putting
questions to those possessed of little; having, as though he had
not; full, and yet counting himself as empty; offended against, and
yet entering into no altercation; formerly I had a friend who
pursued this style of conduct."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "Suppose that there is an individual who
can be entrusted with the charge of a young orphan prince, and can
be commissioned with authority over a state of a hundred li, and
whom no emergency however great can drive from his principles:-is such
a man a superior man? He is a superior man indeed."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "The officer may not be without
breadth of mind and vigorous endurance. His burden is heavy and his
course is long.
  "Perfect virtue is the burden which he considers it is his to
sustain;-is it not heavy? Only with death does his course stop;-is
it not long?
  The Master said, "It is by the Odes that the mind is aroused.
  "It is by the Rules of Propriety that the character is established.
  "It is from Music that the finish is received."
  The Master said, "The people may be made to follow a path of action,
but they may not be made to understand it."
  The Master said, "The man who is fond of daring and is
dissatisfied with poverty, will proceed to insubordination. So will
the man who is not virtuous, when you carry your dislike of him to
an extreme."
  The Master said, "Though a man have abilities as admirable as
those of the Duke of Chau, yet if he be proud and niggardly, those
other things are really not worth being looked at."
  The Master said, "It is not easy to find a man who has learned for
three years without coming to be good."
  The Master said, "With sincere faith he unites the love of learning;
holding firm to death, he is perfecting the excellence of his course.
  "Such an one will not enter a tottering state, nor dwell in a
disorganized one. When right principles of government prevail in the
kingdom, he will show himself; when they are prostrated, he will
keep concealed.
  "When a country is well governed, poverty and a mean condition are
things to be ashamed of. When a country is ill governed, riches and
honor are things to be ashamed of."
  The Master said, "He who is not in any particular office has nothing
to do with plans for the administration of its duties."
  The Master said, "When the music master Chih first entered on his
office, the finish of the Kwan Tsu was magnificent;-how it filled
the ears!"
  The Master said, "Ardent and yet not upright, stupid and yet not
attentive; simple and yet not sincere:-such persons I do not
understand."
  The Master said, "Learn as if you could not reach your object, and
were always fearing also lest you should lose it."
  The Master said, "How majestic was the manner in which Shun and Yu
held possession of the empire, as if it were nothing to them!
  The Master said, "Great indeed was Yao as a sovereign! How
majestic was he! It is only Heaven that is grand, and only Yao
corresponded to it. How vast was his virtue! The people could find
no name for it.
  "How majestic was he in the works which he accomplished! How
glorious in the elegant regulations which he instituted!"
  Shun had five ministers, and the empire was well governed.
  King Wu said, "I have ten able ministers."
  Confucius said, "Is not the saying that talents are difficult to
find, true? Only when the dynasties of T'ang and Yu met, were they
more abundant than in this of Chau, yet there was a woman among
them. The able ministers were no more than nine men.
  "King Wan possessed two of the three parts of the empire, and with
those he served the dynasty of Yin. The virtue of the house of Chau
may be said to have reached the highest point indeed."
  The Master said, "I can find no flaw in the character of Yu. He used
himself coarse food and drink, but displayed the utmost filial piety
towards the spirits. His ordinary garments were poor, but he displayed
the utmost elegance in his sacrificial cap and apron. He lived in a
low, mean house, but expended all his strength on the ditches and
water channels. I can find nothing like a flaw in Yu."

                              9

  The subjects of which the Master seldom spoke were-profitableness,
and also the appointments of Heaven, and perfect virtue.
  A man of the village of Ta-hsiang said, "Great indeed is the
philosopher K'ung! His learning is extensive, and yet he does not
render his name famous by any particular thing."
  The Master heard the observation, and said to his disciples, "What
shall I practice? Shall I practice charioteering, or shall I
practice archery? I will practice charioteering."
  The Master said, "The linen cap is that prescribed by the rules of
ceremony, but now a silk one is worn. It is economical, and I follow
the common practice.
  "The rules of ceremony prescribe the bowing below the hall, but
now the practice is to bow only after ascending it. That is
arrogant. I continue to bow below the hall, though I oppose the common
practice."
  There were four things from which the Master was entirely free. He
had no foregone conclusions, no arbitrary predeterminations, no
obstinacy, and no egoism.
  The Master was put in fear in K'wang.
  He said, "After the death of King Wan, was not the cause of truth
lodged here in me?
  "If Heaven had wished to let this cause of truth perish, then I, a
future mortal! should not have got such a relation to that cause.
While Heaven does not let the cause of truth perish, what can the
people of K'wang do to me?"
  A high officer asked Tsze-kung, saying, "May we not say that your
Master is a sage? How various is his ability!"
  Tsze-kung said, "Certainly Heaven has endowed him unlimitedly. He is
about a sage. And, moreover, his ability is various."
  The Master heard of the conversation and said, "Does the high
officer know me? When I was young, my condition was low, and I
acquired my ability in many things, but they were mean matters. Must
the superior man have such variety of ability? He does not need
variety of ability. Lao said, "The Master said, 'Having no official
employment, I acquired many arts.'"
  The Master said, "Am I indeed possessed of knowledge? I am not
knowing. But if a mean person, who appears quite empty-like, ask
anything of me, I set it forth from one end to the other, and
exhaust it."
  The Master said, "The Fang bird does not come; the river sends forth
no map:-it is all over with me!"
  When the Master saw a person in a mourning dress, or any one with
the cap and upper and lower garments of full dress, or a blind person,
on observing them approaching, though they were younger than
himself, he would rise up, and if he had to pass by them, he would
do so hastily.
  Yen Yuan, in admiration of the Master's doctrines, sighed and
said, "I looked up to them, and they seemed to become more high; I
tried to penetrate them, and they seemed to become more firm; I looked
at them before me, and suddenly they seemed to be behind.
  "The Master, by orderly method, skillfully leads men on. He enlarged
my mind with learning, and taught me the restraints of propriety.
  "When I wish to give over the study of his doctrines, I cannot do
so, and having exerted all my ability, there seems something to
stand right up before me; but though I wish to follow and lay hold
of it, I really find no way to do so."
  The Master being very ill, Tsze-lu wished the disciples to act as
ministers to him.
  During a remission of his illness, he said, "Long has the conduct of
Yu been deceitful! By pretending to have ministers when I have them
not, whom should I impose upon? Should I impose upon Heaven?
  "Moreover, than that I should die in the hands of ministers, is it
not better that I should die in the hands of you, my disciples? And
though I may not get a great burial, shall I die upon the road?"
  Tsze-kung said, "There is a beautiful gem here. Should I lay it up
in a case and keep it? or should I seek for a good price and sell it?"
The Master said, "Sell it! Sell it! But I would wait for one to
offer the price."
  The Master was wishing to go and live among the nine wild tribes
of the east.
  Some one said, "They are rude. How can you do such a thing?" The
Master said, "If a superior man dwelt among them, what rudeness
would there be?"
  The Master said, "I returned from Wei to Lu, and then the music
was reformed, and the pieces in the Royal songs and Praise songs all
found their proper places."
  The Master said, "Abroad, to serve the high ministers and nobles; at
home, to serve one's father and elder brothers; in all duties to the
dead, not to dare not to exert one's self; and not to be overcome of
wine:-which one of these things do I attain to?"
  The Master standing by a stream, said, "It passes on just like this,
not ceasing day or night!"
  The Master said, "I have not seen one who loves virtue as he loves
beauty."
  The Master said, "The prosecution of learning may be compared to
what may happen in raising a mound. If there want but one basket of
earth to complete the work, and I stop, the stopping is my own work.
It may be compared to throwing down the earth on the level ground.
Though but one basketful is thrown at a time, the advancing with it my
own going forward."
  The Master said, "Never flagging when I set forth anything to
him;-ah! that is Hui." The Master said of Yen Yuan, "Alas! I saw his
constant advance. I never saw him stop in his progress."
  The Master said, "There are cases in which the blade springs, but
the plant does not go on to flower! There are cases where it flowers
but fruit is not subsequently produced!"
  The Master said, "A youth is to be regarded with respect. How do
we know that his future will not be equal to our present? If he
reach the age of forty or fifty, and has not made himself heard of,
then indeed he will not be worth being regarded with respect."
  The Master said, "Can men refuse to assent to the words of strict
admonition? But it is reforming the conduct because of them which is
valuable. Can men refuse to be pleased with words of gentle advice?
But it is unfolding their aim which is valuable. If a man be pleased
with these words, but does not unfold their aim, and assents to those,
but does not reform his conduct, I can really do nothing with him."
  The Master said, "Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first
principles. Have no friends not equal to yourself. When you have
faults, do not fear to abandon them."
  The Master said, "The commander of the forces of a large state may
be carried off, but the will of even a common man cannot be taken from
him."
  The Master said, "Dressed himself in a tattered robe quilted with
hemp, yet standing by the side of men dressed in furs, and not
ashamed;-ah! it is Yu who is equal to this!
  "He dislikes none, he covets nothing;-what can he do but what is
good!"
  Tsze-lu kept continually repeating these words of the ode, when
the Master said, "Those things are by no means sufficient to
constitute perfect excellence."
  The Master said, "When the year becomes cold, then we know how the
pine and the cypress are the last to lose their leaves."
  The Master said, "The wise are free from perplexities; the
virtuous from anxiety; and the bold from fear."
  The Master said, "There are some with whom we may study in common,
but we shall find them unable to go along with us to principles.
Perhaps we may go on with them to principles, but we shall find them
unable to get established in those along with us. Or if we may get
so established along with them, we shall find them unable to weigh
occurring events along with us."
  "How the flowers of the aspen-plum flutter and turn! Do I not
think of you? But your house is distant."
  The Master said, "It is the want of thought about it. How is it
distant?"

                             10

  Confucius, in his village, looked simple and sincere, and as if he
were not able to speak.
  When he was in the prince's ancestral temple, or in the court, he
spoke minutely on every point, but cautiously.
  When he was waiting at court, in speaking with the great officers of
the lower grade, he spoke freely, but in a straightforward manner;
in speaking with those of the higher grade, he did so blandly, but
precisely.
  When the ruler was present, his manner displayed respectful
uneasiness; it was grave, but self-possessed.
  When the prince called him to employ him in the reception of a
visitor, his countenance appeared to change, and his legs to move
forward with difficulty.
  He inclined himself to the other officers among whom he stood,
moving his left or right arm, as their position required, but
keeping the skirts of his robe before and behind evenly adjusted.
  He hastened forward, with his arms like the wings of a bird.
  When the guest had retired, he would report to the prince, "The
visitor is not turning round any more."
  When he entered the palace gate, he seemed to bend his body, as if
it were not sufficient to admit him.
  When he was standing, he did not occupy the middle of the gateway;
when he passed in or out, he did not tread upon the threshold.
  When he was passing the vacant place of the prince, his
countenance appeared to change, and his legs to bend under him, and
his words came as if he hardly had breath to utter them.
  He ascended the reception hall, holding up his robe with both his
hands, and his body bent; holding in his breath also, as if he dared
not breathe.
  When he came out from the audience, as soon as he had descended
one step, he began to relax his countenance, and had a satisfied look.
When he had got the bottom of the steps, he advanced rapidly to his
place, with his arms like wings, and on occupying it, his manner still
showed respectful uneasiness.
  When he was carrying the scepter of his ruler, he seemed to bend his
body, as if he were not able to bear its weight. He did not hold it
higher than the position of the hands in making a bow, nor lower
than their position in giving anything to another. His countenance
seemed to change, and look apprehensive, and he dragged his feet along
as if they were held by something to the ground.
  In presenting the presents with which he was charged, he wore a
placid appearance.
  At his private audience, he looked highly pleased.
  The superior man did not use a deep purple, or a puce color, in
the ornaments of his dress.
  Even in his undress, he did not wear anything of a red or reddish
color.
  In warm weather, he had a single garment either of coarse or fine
texture, but he wore it displayed over an inner garment.
  Over lamb's fur he wore a garment of black; over fawn's fur one of
white; and over fox's fur one of yellow.
  The fur robe of his undress was long, with the right sleeve short.
  He required his sleeping dress to be half as long again as his body.
  When staying at home, he used thick furs of the fox or the badger.
  When he put off mourning, he wore all the appendages of the girdle.
  His undergarment, except when it was required to be of the curtain
shape, was made of silk cut narrow above and wide below.
  He did not wear lamb's fur or a black cap on a visit of condolence.
  On the first day of the month he put on his court robes, and
presented himself at court.
  When fasting, he thought it necessary to have his clothes brightly
clean and made of linen cloth.
  When fasting, he thought it necessary to change his food, and also
to change the place where he commonly sat in the apartment.
  He did not dislike to have his rice finely cleaned, nor to have
his mince meat cut quite small.
  He did not eat rice which had been injured by heat or damp and
turned sour, nor fish or flesh which was gone. He did not eat what was
discolored, or what was of a bad flavor, nor anything which was
ill-cooked, or was not in season.
  He did not eat meat which was not cut properly, nor what was
served without its proper sauce.
  Though there might be a large quantity of meat, he would not allow
what he took to exceed the due proportion for the rice. It was only in
wine that he laid down no limit for himself, but he did not allow
himself to be confused by it.
  He did not partake of wine and dried meat bought in the market.
  He was never without ginger when he ate. He did not eat much.
  When he had been assisting at the prince's sacrifice, he did not
keep the flesh which he received overnight. The flesh of his family
sacrifice he did not keep over three days. If kept over three days,
people could not eat it.
  When eating, he did not converse. When in bed, he did not speak.
  Although his food might be coarse rice and vegetable soup, he
would offer a little of it in sacrifice with a grave, respectful air.
  If his mat was not straight, he did not sit on it.
  When the villagers were drinking together, upon those who carried
staffs going out, he also went out immediately after.
  When the villagers were going through their ceremonies to drive away
pestilential influences, he put on his court robes and stood on the
eastern steps.
  When he was sending complimentary inquiries to any one in another
state, he bowed twice as he escorted the messenger away.
  Chi K'ang having sent him a present of physic, he bowed and received
it, saying, "I do not know it. I dare not taste it."
  The stable being burned down, when he was at court, on his return he
said, "Has any man been hurt?" He did not ask about the horses.
  When the he would adjust his mat, first taste it, and then give it
away to others. When the prince sent him a gift of undressed meat,
he would have it cooked, and offer it to the spirits of his ancestors.
When the prince sent him a gift of a living animal, he would keep it
alive.
  When he was in attendance on the prince and joining in the
entertainment, the prince only sacrificed. He first tasted everything.
  When he was ill and the prince came to visit him, he had his head to
the east, made his court robes be spread over him, and drew his girdle
across them.
  When the prince's order called him, without waiting for his carriage
to be yoked, he went at once.
  When he entered the ancestral temple of the state, he asked about
everything.
  When any of his friends died, if he had no relations offices, he
would say, "I will bury him."
  When a friend sent him a present, though it might be a carriage
and horses, he did not bow.
  The only present for which he bowed was that of the flesh of
sacrifice.
  In bed, he did not lie like a corpse. At home, he did not put on any
formal deportment.
  When he saw any one in a mourning dress, though it might be an
acquaintance, he would change countenance; when he saw any one wearing
the cap of full dress, or a blind person, though he might be in his
undress, he would salute him in a ceremonious manner.
  To any person in mourning he bowed forward to the crossbar of his
carriage; he bowed in the same way to any one bearing the tables of
population.
  When he was at an entertainment where there was an abundance of
provisions set before him, he would change countenance and rise up.
  On a sudden clap of thunder, or a violent wind, he would change
countenance.
  When he was about to mount his carriage, he would stand straight,
holding the cord.
  When he was in the carriage, he did not turn his head quite round,
he did not talk hastily, he did not point with his hands.
  Seeing the countenance, it instantly rises. It flies round, and by
and by settles.
  The Master said, "There is the hen-pheasant on the hill bridge. At
its season! At its season!" Tsze-lu made a motion to it. Thrice it
smelt him and then rose.

                             11

  The Master said, "The men of former times in the matters of
ceremonies and music were rustics, it is said, while the men of
these latter times, in ceremonies and music, are accomplished
gentlemen.
  "If I have occasion to use those things, I follow the men of
former times."
  The Master said, "Of those who were with me in Ch'an and Ts'ai,
there are none to be found to enter my door."
  Distinguished for their virtuous principles and practice, there were
Yen Yuan, Min Tsze-ch'ien, Zan Po-niu, and Chung-kung; for their
ability in speech, Tsai Wo and Tsze-kung; for their administrative
talents, Zan Yu and Chi Lu; for their literary acquirements, Tsze-yu
and Tsze-hsia.
  The Master said, "Hui gives me no assistance. There is nothing
that I say in which he does not delight."
  The Master said, "Filial indeed is Min Tsze-ch'ien! Other people say
nothing of him different from the report of his parents and brothers."
  Nan Yung was frequently repeating the lines about a white scepter
stone. Confucius gave him the daughter of his elder brother to wife.
  Chi K'ang asked which of the disciples loved to learn. Confucius
replied to him, "There was Yen Hui; he loved to learn. Unfortunately
his appointed time was short, and he died. Now there is no one who
loves to learn, as he did."
  When Yen Yuan died, Yen Lu begged the carriage of the Master to sell
and get an outer shell for his son's coffin.
  The Master said, "Every one calls his son his son, whether he has
talents or has not talents. There was Li; when he died, he had a
coffin but no outer shell. I would not walk on foot to get a shell for
him, because, having followed in the rear of the great officers, it
was not proper that I should walk on foot."
  When Yen Yuan died, the Master said, "Alas! Heaven is destroying me!
Heaven is destroying me!"
  When Yen Yuan died, the Master bewailed him exceedingly, and the
disciples who were with him said, "Master, your grief is excessive!"
  "Is it excessive?" said he. "If I am not to mourn bitterly for
this man, for whom should I mourn?"
  When Yen Yuan died, the disciples wished to give him a great
funeral, and the Master said, "You may not do so."
  The disciples did bury him in great style.
  The Master said, "Hui behaved towards me as his father. I have not
been able to treat him as my son. The fault is not mine; it belongs to
you, O disciples."
  Chi Lu asked about serving the spirits of the dead. The Master said,
"While you are not able to serve men, how can you serve their
spirits?" Chi Lu added, "I venture to ask about death?" He was
answered, "While you do not know life, how can you know about death?"
  The disciple Min was standing by his side, looking bland and
precise; Tsze-lu, looking bold and soldierly; Zan Yu and Tsze-kung,
with a free and straightforward manner. The Master was pleased.
  He said, "Yu, there!-he will not die a natural death."
  Some parties in Lu were going to take down and rebuild the Long
Treasury.
  Min Tsze-ch'ien said, "Suppose it were to be repaired after its
old style;-why must it be altered and made anew?"
  The Master said, "This man seldom speaks; when he does, he is sure
to hit the point."
  The Master said, "What has the lute of Yu to do in my door?"
  The other disciples began not to respect Tszelu. The Master said,
"Yu has ascended to the hall, though he has not yet passed into the
inner apartments."
  Tsze-kung asked which of the two, Shih or Shang, was the superior.
The Master said, "Shih goes beyond the due mean, and Shang does not
come up to it."
  "Then," said Tsze-kung, "the superiority is with Shih, I suppose."
  The Master said, "To go beyond is as wrong as to fall short."
  The head of the Chi family was richer than the duke of Chau had
been, and yet Ch'iu collected his imposts for him, and increased his
wealth.
  The Master said, "He is no disciple of mine. My little children,
beat the drum and assail him."
  Ch'ai is simple. Shan is dull. Shih is specious. Yu is coarse.
  The Master said, "There is Hui! He has nearly attained to perfect
virtue. He is often in want.
  "Ts'ze does not acquiesce in the appointments of Heaven, and his
goods are increased by him. Yet his judgments are often correct."
  Tsze-chang asked what were the characteristics of the good man.
The Master said, "He does not tread in the footsteps of others, but
moreover, he does not enter the chamber of the sage."
  The Master said, "If, because a man's discourse appears solid and
sincere, we allow him to be a good man, is he really a superior man?
or is his gravity only in appearance?"
  Tsze-lu asked whether he should immediately carry into practice what
he heard. The Master said, "There are your father and elder brothers
to be consulted;-why should you act on that principle of immediately
carrying into practice what you hear?" Zan Yu asked the same,
whether he should immediately carry into practice what he heard, and
the Master answered, "Immediately carry into practice what you
hear." Kung-hsi Hwa said, "Yu asked whether he should carry
immediately into practice what he heard, and you said, 'There are your
father and elder brothers to be consulted.' Ch'iu asked whether he
should immediately carry into practice what he heard, and you said,
'Carry it immediately into practice.' I, Ch'ih, am perplexed, and
venture to ask you for an explanation." The Master said, "Ch'iu is
retiring and slow; therefore I urged him forward. Yu has more than his
own share of energy; therefore I kept him back."
  The Master was put in fear in K'wang and Yen Yuan fell behind. The
Master, on his rejoining him, said, "I thought you had died." Hui
replied, "While you were alive, how should I presume to die?"
  Chi Tsze-zan asked whether Chung Yu and Zan Ch'iu could be called
great ministers.
  The Master said, "I thought you would ask about some extraordinary
individuals, and you only ask about Yu and Ch'iu!
  "What is called a great minister, is one who serves his prince
according to what is right, and when he finds he cannot do so,
retires.
  "Now, as to Yu and Ch'iu, they may be called ordinary ministers."
  Tsze-zan said, "Then they will always follow their chief;-win they?"
  The Master said, "In an act of parricide or regicide, they would not
follow him."
  Tsze-lu got Tsze-kao appointed governor of Pi.
  The Master said, "You are injuring a man's son."
  Tsze-lu said, "There are, there, common people and officers; there
are the altars of the spirits of the land and grain. Why must one read
books before he can be considered to have learned?"
  The Master said, "It is on this account that I hate your
glib-tongued people."
  Tsze-lu, Tsang Hsi, Zan Yu, and Kunghsi Hwa were sitting by the
Master.
  He said to them, "Though I am a day or so older than you, do not
think of that.
  "From day to day you are saying, 'We are not known.' If some ruler
were to know you, what would you like to do?"
  Tsze-lu hastily and lightly replied, "Suppose the case of a state of
ten thousand chariots; let it be straitened between other large
cities; let it be suffering from invading armies; and to this let
there be added a famine in corn and in all vegetables:-if I were
intrusted with the government of it, in three years' time I could make
the people to be bold, and to recognize the rules of righteous
conduct." The Master smiled at him.
  Turning to Yen Yu, he said, "Ch'iu, what are your wishes?" Ch'iu
replied, "Suppose a state of sixty or seventy li square, or one of
fifty or sixty, and let me have the government of it;-in three
years' time, I could make plenty to abound among the people. As to
teaching them the principles of propriety, and music, I must wait
for the rise of a superior man to do that."
  "What are your wishes, Ch'ih," said the Master next to Kung-hsi Hwa.
Ch'ih replied, "I do not say that my ability extends to these
things, but I should wish to learn them. At the services of the
ancestral temple, and at the audiences of the princes with the
sovereign, I should like, dressed in the dark square-made robe and the
black linen cap, to act as a small assistant."
  Last of all, the Master asked Tsang Hsi, "Tien, what are your
wishes?" Tien, pausing as he was playing on his lute, while it was yet
twanging, laid the instrument aside, and "My wishes," he said, "are
different from the cherished purposes of these three gentlemen." "What
harm is there in that?" said the Master; "do you also, as well as
they, speak out your wishes." Tien then said, "In this, the last month
of spring, with the dress of the season all complete, along with
five or six young men who have assumed the cap, and six or seven boys,
I would wash in the I, enjoy the breeze among the rain altars, and
return home singing." The Master heaved a sigh and said, "I give my
approval to Tien."
  The three others having gone out, Tsang Hsi remained behind, and
said, "What do you think of the words of these three friends?" The
Master replied, "They simply told each one his wishes."
  Hsi pursued, "Master, why did you smile at Yu?"
  He was answered, "The management of a state demands the rules of
propriety. His words were not humble; therefore I smiled at him."
  Hsi again said, "But was it not a state which Ch'iu proposed for
himself?" The reply was, "Yes; did you ever see a territory of sixty
or seventy li or one of fifty or sixty, which was not a state?"
  Once more, Hsi inquired, "And was it not a state which Ch'ih
proposed for himself?" The Master again replied, "Yes; who but princes
have to do with ancestral temples, and with audiences but the
sovereign? If Ch'ih were to be a small assistant in these services,
who could be a great one?

                             12

  Yen Yuan asked about perfect virtue. The Master said, "To subdue
one's self and return to propriety, is perfect virtue. If a man can
for one day subdue himself and return to propriety, an under heaven
will ascribe perfect virtue to him. Is the practice of perfect
virtue from a man himself, or is it from others?"
  Yen Yuan said, "I beg to ask the steps of that process." The
Master replied, "Look not at what is contrary to propriety; listen not
to what is contrary to propriety; speak not what is contrary to
propriety; make no movement which is contrary to propriety." Yen
Yuan then said, "Though I am deficient in intelligence and vigor, I
will make it my business to practice this lesson."
  Chung-kung asked about perfect virtue. The Master said, "It is, when
you go abroad, to behave to every one as if you were receiving a great
guest; to employ the people as if you were assisting at a great
sacrifice; not to do to others as you would not wish done to yourself;
to have no murmuring against you in the country, and none in the
family." Chung-kung said, "Though I am deficient in intelligence and
vigor, I will make it my business to practice this lesson."
  Sze-ma Niu asked about perfect virtue.
  The Master said, "The man of perfect virtue is cautious and slow
in his speech."
  "Cautious and slow in his speech!" said Niu;-"is this what is
meant by perfect virtue?" The Master said, "When a man feels the
difficulty of doing, can he be other than cautious and slow in
speaking?"
  Sze-ma Niu asked about the superior man. The Master said, "The
superior man has neither anxiety nor fear."
  "Being without anxiety or fear!" said Nui;"does this constitute what
we call the superior man?"
  The Master said, "When internal examination discovers nothing wrong,
what is there to be anxious about, what is there to fear?"
  Sze-ma Niu, full of anxiety, said, "Other men all have their
brothers, I only have not."
  Tsze-hsia said to him, "There is the following saying which I have
heard-'Death and life have their determined appointment; riches and
honors depend upon Heaven.'
  "Let the superior man never fail reverentially to order his own
conduct, and let him be respectful to others and observant of
propriety:-then all within the four seas will be his brothers. What
has the superior man to do with being distressed because he has no
brothers?"
  Tsze-chang asked what constituted intelligence. The Master said, "He
with whom neither slander that gradually soaks into the mind, nor
statements that startle like a wound in the flesh, are successful
may be called intelligent indeed. Yea, he with whom neither soaking
slander, nor startling statements, are successful, may be called
farseeing."
  Tsze-kung asked about government. The Master said, "The requisites
of government are that there be sufficiency of food, sufficiency of
military equipment, and the confidence of the people in their ruler."
  Tsze-kung said, "If it cannot be helped, and one of these must be
dispensed with, which of the three should be foregone first?" "The
military equipment," said the Master.
  Tsze-kung again asked, "If it cannot be helped, and one of the
remaining two must be dispensed with, which of them should be
foregone?" The Master answered, "Part with the food. From of old,
death has been the lot of an men; but if the people have no faith in
their rulers, there is no standing for the state."
  Chi Tsze-ch'ang said, "In a superior man it is only the
substantial qualities which are wanted;-why should we seek for
ornamental accomplishments?"
  Tsze-kung said, "Alas! Your words, sir, show you to be a superior
man, but four horses cannot overtake the tongue. Ornament is as
substance; substance is as ornament. The hide of a tiger or a
leopard stripped of its hair, is like the hide of a dog or a goat
stripped of its hair."
  The Duke Ai inquired of Yu Zo, saying, "The year is one of scarcity,
and the returns for expenditure are not sufficient;-what is to be
done?"
  Yu Zo replied to him, "Why not simply tithe the people?"
  "With two tenths, said the duke, "I find it not enough;-how could
I do with that system of one tenth?"
  Yu Zo answered, "If the people have plenty, their prince will not be
left to want alone. If the people are in want, their prince cannot
enjoy plenty alone."
  Tsze-chang having asked how virtue was to be exalted, and
delusions to be discovered, the Master said, "Hold faithfulness and
sincerity as first principles, and be moving continually to what is
right,-this is the way to exalt one's virtue.
  "You love a man and wish him to live; you hate him and wish him to
die. Having wished him to live, you also wish him to die. This is a
case of delusion. 'It may not be on account of her being rich, yet you
come to make a difference.'"
  The Duke Ching, of Ch'i, asked Confucius about government. Confucius
replied, "There is government, when the prince is prince, and the
minister is minister; when the father is father, and the son is son."
  "Good!" said the duke; "if, indeed, the prince be not prince, the
not minister, the father not father, and the son not son, although I
have my revenue, can I enjoy it?"
  The Master said, "Ah! it is Yu, who could with half a word settle
litigations!"
  Tsze-lu never slept over a promise.
  The Master said, "In hearing litigations, I am like any other
body. What is necessary, however, is to cause the people to have no
litigations."
  Tsze-chang asked about government. The Master said, "The art of
governing is to keep its affairs before the mind without weariness,
and to practice them with undeviating consistency."
  The Master said, "By extensively studying all learning, and
keeping himself under the restraint of the rules of propriety, one may
thus likewise not err from what is right."
  The Master said, "The superior man seeks to perfect the admirable
qualities of men, and does not seek to perfect their bad qualities.
The mean man does the opposite of this."
  Chi K'ang asked Confucius about government. Confucius replied, "To
govern means to rectify. If you lead on the people with correctness,
who will dare not to be correct?"
  Chi K'ang, distressed about the number of thieves in the state,
inquired of Confucius how to do away with them. Confucius said, "If
you, sir, were not covetous, although you should reward them to do it,
they would not steal."
  Chi K'ang asked Confucius about government, saying, "What do you say
to killing the unprincipled for the good of the principled?" Confucius
replied, "Sir, in carrying on your government, why should you use
killing at all? Let your evinced desires be for what is good, and
the people will be good. The relation between superiors and
inferiors is like that between the wind and the grass. The grass
must bend, when the wind blows across it."
  Tsze-chang asked, "What must the officer be, who may be said to be
distinguished?"
  The Master said, "What is it you call being distinguished?"
  Tsze-chang replied, "It is to be heard of through the state, to be
heard of throughout his clan."
  The Master said, "That is notoriety, not distinction.
  "Now the man of distinction is solid and straightforward, and
loves righteousness. He examines people's words, and looks at their
countenances. He is anxious to humble himself to others. Such a man
will be distinguished in the country; he will be distinguished in
his clan.
  "As to the man of notoriety, he assumes the appearance of virtue,
but his actions are opposed to it, and he rests in this character
without any doubts about himself. Such a man will be heard of in the
country; he will be heard of in the clan."
  Fan Ch'ih rambling with the Master under the trees about the rain
altars, said, "I venture to ask how to exalt virtue, to correct
cherished evil, and to discover delusions."
  The Master said, "Truly a good question!
  "If doing what is to be done be made the first business, and success
a secondary consideration:-is not this the way to exalt virtue? To
assail one's own wickedness and not assail that of others;-is not this
the way to correct cherished evil? For a morning's anger to
disregard one's own life, and involve that of his parents;-is not this
a case of delusion?"
  Fan Ch'ih asked about benevolence. The Master said, "It is to love
all men." He asked about knowledge. The Master said, "It is to know
all men."
  Fan Ch'ih did not immediately understand these answers.
  The Master said, "Employ the upright and put aside all the
crooked; in this way the crooked can be made to be upright."
  Fan Ch'ih retired, and, seeing Tsze-hsia, he said to him, "A
Little while ago, I had an interview with our Master, and asked him
about knowledge. He said, 'Employ the upright, and put aside all the
crooked;-in this way, the crooked will be made to be upright.' What
did he mean?"
  Tsze-hsia said, "Truly rich is his saying!
  "Shun, being in possession of the kingdom, selected from among all
the people, and employed Kai-yao-on which all who were devoid of
virtue disappeared. T'ang, being in possession of the kingdom,
selected from among all the people, and employed I Yin-and an who were
devoid of virtue disappeared."
  Tsze-kung asked about friendship. The Master said, "Faithfully
admonish your friend, and skillfully lead him on. If you find him
impracticable, stop. Do not disgrace yourself."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "The superior man on grounds of
culture meets with his friends, and by friendship helps his virtue."

                             13

  Tsze-lu asked about government. The Master said, "Go before the
people with your example, and be laborious in their affairs."
  He requested further instruction, and was answered, "Be not weary in
these things."
  Chung-kung, being chief minister to the head of the Chi family,
asked about government. The Master said, "Employ first the services of
your various officers, pardon small faults, and raise to office men of
virtue and talents."
  Chung-kung said, "How shall I know the men of virtue and talent,
so that I may raise them to office?" He was answered, "Raise to office
those whom you know. As to those whom you do not know, will others
neglect them?"
  Tsze-lu said, "The ruler of Wei has been waiting for you, in order
with you to administer the government. What will you consider the
first thing to be done?"
  The Master replied, "What is necessary is to rectify names."
  "So! indeed!" said Tsze-lu. "You are wide of the mark! Why must
there be such rectification?"
  The Master said, "How uncultivated you are, Yu! A superior man, in
regard to what he does not know, shows a cautious reserve.
  "If names be not correct, language is not in accordance with the
truth of things. If language be not in accordance with the truth of
things, affairs cannot be carried on to success.
  "When affairs cannot be carried on to success, proprieties and music
do not flourish. When proprieties and music do not flourish,
punishments will not be properly awarded. When punishments are not
properly awarded, the people do not know how to move hand or foot.
  "Therefore a superior man considers it necessary that the names he
uses may be spoken appropriately, and also that what he speaks may
be carried out appropriately. What the superior man requires is just
that in his words there may be nothing incorrect."
  Fan Ch'ih requested to be taught husbandry. The Master said, "I am
not so good for that as an old husbandman." He requested also to be
taught gardening, and was answered, "I am not so good for that as an
old gardener."
  Fan Ch'ih having gone out, the Master said, "A small man, indeed, is
Fan Hsu! If a superior man love propriety, the people will not dare
not to be reverent. If he love righteousness, the people will not dare
not to submit to his example. If he love good faith, the people will
not dare not to be sincere. Now, when these things obtain, the
people from all quarters will come to him, bearing their children on
their backs; what need has he of a knowledge of husbandry?"
  The Master said, "Though a man may be able to recite the three
hundred odes, yet if, when intrusted with a governmental charge, he
knows not how to act, or if, when sent to any quarter on a mission, he
cannot give his replies unassisted, notwithstanding the extent of
his learning, of what practical use is it?"
  The Master said, "When a prince's personal conduct is correct, his
government is effective without the issuing of orders. If his personal
conduct is not correct, he may issue orders, but they will not be
followed."
  The Master said, "The governments of Lu and Wei are brothers."
  The Master said of Ching, a scion of the ducal family of Wei, that
he knew the economy of a family well. When he began to have means,
he said, "Ha! here is a collection-!" When they were a little
increased, he said, "Ha! this is complete!" When he had become rich,
he said, "Ha! this is admirable!"
  When the Master went to Weil Zan Yu acted as driver of his carriage.
  The Master observed, "How numerous are the people!"
  Yu said, "Since they are thus numerous, what more shall be done
for them?" "Enrich them, was the reply.
  "And when they have been enriched, what more shall be done?" The
Master said, "Teach them."
  The Master said, "If there were any of the princes who would
employ me, in the course of twelve months, I should have done
something considerable. In three years, the government would be
perfected."
  The Master said, "'If good men were to govern a country in
succession for a hundred years, they would be able to transform the
violently bad, and dispense with capital punishments.' True indeed
is this saying!"
  The Master said, "If a truly royal ruler were to arise, it would
stir require a generation, and then virtue would prevail."
  The Master said, "If a minister make his own conduct correct, what
difficulty will he have in assisting in government? If he cannot
rectify himself, what has he to do with rectifying others?"
  The disciple Zan returning from the court, the Master said to him,
"How are you so late?" He replied, "We had government business." The
Master said, "It must have been family affairs. If there had been
government business, though I am not now in office, I should have been
consulted about it."
  The Duke Ting asked whether there was a single sentence which
could make a country prosperous. Confucius replied, "Such an effect
cannot be expected from one sentence.
  "There is a saying, however, which people have -'To be a prince is
difficult; to be a minister is not easy.'
  "If a ruler knows this,-the difficulty of being a prince,-may
there not be expected from this one sentence the prosperity of his
country?"
  The duke then said, "Is there a single sentence which can ruin a
country?" Confucius replied, "Such an effect as that cannot be
expected from one sentence. There is, however, the saying which people
have-'I have no pleasure in being a prince, but only in that no one
can offer any opposition to what I say!'
  "If a ruler's words be good, is it not also good that no one
oppose them? But if they are not good, and no one opposes them, may
there not be expected from this one sentence the ruin of his country?"
  The Duke of Sheh asked about government.
  The Master said, "Good government obtains when those who are near
are made happy, and those who are far off are attracted."
  Tsze-hsia! being governor of Chu-fu, asked about government. The
Master said, "Do not be desirous to have things done quickly; do not
look at small advantages. Desire to have things done quickly
prevents their being done thoroughly. Looking at small advantages
prevents great affairs from being accomplished."
  The Duke of Sheh informed Confucius, saying, "Among us here there
are those who may be styled upright in their conduct. If their
father have stolen a sheep, they will bear witness to the fact."
  Confucius said, "Among us, in our part of the country, those who are
upright are different from this. The father conceals the misconduct of
the son, and the son conceals the misconduct of the father.
Uprightness is to be found in this."
  Fan Ch'ih asked about perfect virtue. The Master said, "It is, in
retirement, to be sedately grave; in the management of business, to be
reverently attentive; in intercourse with others, to be strictly
sincere. Though a man go among rude, uncultivated tribes, these
qualities may not be neglected."
  Tsze-kung asked, saying, "What qualities must a man possess to
entitle him to be called an officer? The Master said, "He who in his
conduct of himself maintains a sense of shame, and when sent to any
quarter will not disgrace his prince's commission, deserves to be
called an officer."
  Tsze-kung pursued, "I venture to ask who may be placed in the next
lower rank?" And he was told, "He whom the circle of his relatives
pronounce to be filial, whom his fellow villagers and neighbors
pronounce to be fraternal."
  Again the disciple asked, "I venture to ask about the class still
next in order." The Master said, "They are determined to be sincere in
what they say, and to carry out what they do. They are obstinate
little men. Yet perhaps they may make the next class."
  Tsze-kung finally inquired, "Of what sort are those of the present
day, who engage in government?" The Master said "Pooh! they are so
many pecks and hampers, not worth being taken into account."
  The Master said, "Since I cannot get men pursuing the due medium, to
whom I might communicate my instructions, I must find the ardent and
the cautiously-decided. The ardent will advance and lay hold of truth;
the cautiously-decided will keep themselves from what is wrong."
  The Master said, "The people of the south have a saying -'A man
without constancy cannot be either a wizard or a doctor.' Good!
  "Inconstant in his virtue, he will be visited with disgrace."
  The Master said, "This arises simply from not attending to the
prognostication."
  The Master said, "The superior man is affable, but not adulatory;
the mean man is adulatory, but not affable."
  Tsze-kung asked, saying, "What do you say of a man who is loved by
all the people of his neighborhood?" The Master replied, "We may not
for that accord our approval of him." "And what do you say of him
who is hated by all the people of his neighborhood?" The Master
said, "We may not for that conclude that he is bad. It is better
than either of these cases that the good in the neighborhood love him,
and the bad hate him."
  The Master said, "The superior man is easy to serve and difficult to
please. If you try to please him in any way which is not accordant
with right, he will not be pleased. But in his employment of men, he
uses them according to their capacity. The mean man is difficult to
serve, and easy to please. If you try to please him, though it be in a
way which is not accordant with right, he may be pleased. But in his
employment of men, he wishes them to be equal to everything."
  The Master said, "The superior man has a dignified ease without
pride. The mean man has pride without a dignified ease."
  The Master said, "The firm, the enduring, the simple, and the modest
are near to virtue."
  Tsze-lu asked, saying, "What qualities must a man possess to entitle
him to be called a scholar?" The Master said, "He must be
thus,-earnest, urgent, and bland:-among his friends, earnest and
urgent; among his brethren, bland."
  The Master said, "Let a good man teach the people seven years, and
they may then likewise be employed in war."
  The Master said, "To lead an uninstructed people to war, is to throw
them away."

                             14

  Hsien asked what was shameful. The Master said, "When good
government prevails in a state, to be thinking only of salary; and,
when bad government prevails, to be thinking, in the same way, only of
salary;-this is shameful."
  "When the love of superiority, boasting, resentments, and
covetousness are repressed, this may be deemed perfect virtue."
  The Master said, "This may be regarded as the achievement of what is
difficult. But I do not know that it is to be deemed perfect virtue."
  The Master said, "The scholar who cherishes the love of comfort is
not fit to be deemed a scholar."
  The Master said, "When good government prevails in a state, language
may be lofty and bold, and actions the same. When bad government
prevails, the actions may be lofty and bold, but the language may be
with some reserve."
  The Master said, "The virtuous will be sure to speak correctly,
but those whose speech is good may not always be virtuous. Men of
principle are sure to be bold, but those who are bold may not always
be men of principle."
  Nan-kung Kwo, submitting an inquiry to Confucius, said, "I was
skillful at archery, and Ao could move a boat along upon the land, but
neither of them died a natural death. Yu and Chi personally wrought at
the toils of husbandry, and they became possessors of the kingdom."
The Master made no reply; but when Nan-kung Kwo went out, he said,
"A superior man indeed is this! An esteemer of virtue indeed is this!"
  The Master said, "Superior men, and yet not always virtuous, there
have been, alas! But there never has been a mean man, and, at the same
time, virtuous."
  The Master said, "Can there be love which does not lead to
strictness with its object? Can there be loyalty which does not lead
to the instruction of its object?"
  The Master said, "In preparing the governmental notifications, P'i
Shan first made the rough draft; Shi-shu examined and discussed its
contents; Tsze-yu, the manager of foreign intercourse, then polished
the style; and, finally, Tsze-ch'an of Tung-li gave it the proper
elegance and finish."
  Some one asked about Tsze-ch'an. The Master said, "He was a kind
man."
  He asked about Tsze-hsi. The Master said, "That man! That man!"
  He asked about Kwan Chung. "For him," said the Master, "the city
of Pien, with three hundred families, was taken from the chief of
the Po family, who did not utter a murmuring word, though, to the
end of his life, he had only coarse rice to eat."
  The Master said, "To be poor without murmuring is difficult. To be
rich without being proud is easy."
  The Master said, "Mang Kung-ch'o is more than fit to be chief
officer in the families of Chao and Wei, but he is not fit to be great
officer to either of the states Tang or Hsieh."
  Tsze-lu asked what constituted a COMPLETE man. The Master said,
"Suppose a man with the knowledge of Tsang Wu-chung, the freedom
from covetousness of Kung-ch'o, the bravery of Chwang of Pien, and the
varied talents of Zan Ch'iu; add to these the accomplishments of the
rules of propriety and music;-such a one might be reckoned a
COMPLETE man."
  He then added, "But what is the necessity for a complete man of
the present day to have all these things? The man, who in the view
of gain, thinks of righteousness; who in the view of danger is
prepared to give up his life; and who does not forget an old agreement
however far back it extends:-such a man may be reckoned a COMPLETE
man."
  The Master asked Kung-ming Chia about Kung-shu Wan, saying, "Is it
true that your master speaks not, laughs not, and takes not?"
  Kung-ming Chia replied, "This has arisen from the reporters going
beyond the truth.-My master speaks when it is the time to speak, and
so men do not get tired of his speaking. He laughs when there is
occasion to be joyful, and so men do not get tired of his laughing. He
takes when it is consistent with righteousness to do so, and so men do
not get tired of his taking." The Master said, "So! But is it so
with him?"
  The Master said, "Tsang Wu-chung, keeping possession of Fang,
asked of the duke of Lu to appoint a successor to him in his family.
Although it may be said that he was not using force with his
sovereign, I believe he was."
  The Master said, "The duke Wan of Tsin was crafty and not upright.
The duke Hwan of Ch'i was upright and not crafty."
  Tsze-lu said, "The Duke Hwan caused his brother Chiu to be killed,
when Shao Hu died, with his master, but Kwan Chung did not die. May
not I say that he was wanting in virtue?"
  The Master said, "The Duke Hwan assembled all the princes
together, and that not with weapons of war and chariots:-it was all
through the influence of Kwan Chung. Whose beneficence was like his?
Whose beneficence was like his?"
  Tsze-kung said, "Kwan Chung, I apprehend was wanting in virtue. When
the Duke Hwan caused his brother Chiu to be killed, Kwan Chung was not
able to die with him. Moreover, he became prime minister to Hwan."
  The Master said, "Kwan Chung acted as prime minister to the Duke
Hwan made him leader of all the princes, and united and rectified
the whole kingdom. Down to the present day, the people enjoy the gifts
which he conferred. But for Kwan Chung, we should now be wearing our
hair unbound, and the lappets of our coats buttoning on the left side.
  "Will you require from him the small fidelity of common men and
common women, who would commit suicide in a stream or ditch, no one
knowing anything about them?"
  The great officer, Hsien, who had been family minister to Kung-shu
Wan, ascended to the prince's court in company with Wan.
  The Master, having heard of it, said, "He deserved to be
considered WAN (the accomplished)."
  The Master was speaking about the unprincipled course of the duke
Ling of Weil when Ch'i K'ang said, "Since he is of such a character,
how is it he does not lose his state?"
  Confucius said, "The Chung-shu Yu has the superintendence of his
guests and of strangers; the litanist, T'o, has the management of
his ancestral temple; and Wang-sun Chia has the direction of the
army and forces:-with such officers as these, how should he lose his
state?"
  The Master said, "He who speaks without modesty will find it
difficult to make his words good."
  Chan Ch'ang murdered the Duke Chien of Ch'i.
  Confucius bathed, went to court and informed the Duke Ai, saying,
"Chan Hang has slain his sovereign. I beg that you will undertake to
punish him."
  The duke said, "Inform the chiefs of the three families of it."
  Confucius retired, and said, "Following in the rear of the great
officers, I did not dare not to represent such a matter, and my prince
says, "Inform the chiefs of the three families of it."
  He went to the chiefs, and informed them, but they would not act.
Confucius then said, "Following in the rear of the great officers, I
did not dare not to represent such a matter."
  Tsze-lu asked how a ruler should be served. The Master said, "Do not
impose on him, and, moreover, withstand him to his face."
  The Master said, "The progress of the superior man is upwards; the
progress of the mean man is downwards."
  The Master said, "In ancient times, men learned with a view to their
own improvement. Nowadays, men learn with a view to the approbation of
others."
  Chu Po-yu sent a messenger with friendly inquiries to Confucius.
  Confucius sat with him, and questioned him. "What," said he! "is
your master engaged in?" The messenger replied, "My master is
anxious to make his faults few, but he has not yet succeeded." He then
went out, and the Master said, "A messenger indeed! A messenger
indeed!"
  The Master said, "He who is not in any particular office has nothing
to do with plans for the administration of its duties."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "The superior man, in his thoughts, does
not go out of his place."
  The Master said, "The superior man is modest in his speech, but
exceeds in his actions."
  The Master said, "The way of the superior man is threefold, but I am
not equal to it. Virtuous, he is free from anxieties; wise, he is free
from perplexities; bold, he is free from fear.
  Tsze-kung said, "Master, that is what you yourself say."
  Tsze-kung was in the habit of comparing men together. The Master
said, "Tsze must have reached a high pitch of excellence! Now, I
have not leisure for this."
  The Master said, "I will not be concerned at men's not knowing me; I
will be concerned at my own want of ability."
  The Master said, "He who does not anticipate attempts to deceive
him, nor think beforehand of his not being believed, and yet
apprehends these things readily when they occur;-is he not a man of
superior worth?"
  Wei-shang Mau said to Confucius, "Ch'iu, how is it that you keep
roosting about? Is it not that you are an insinuating talker?
  Confucius said, "I do not dare to play the part of such a talker,
but I hate obstinacy."
  The Master said, "A horse is called a ch'i, not because of its
strength, but because of its other good qualities."
  Some one said, "What do you say concerning the principle that injury
should be recompensed with kindness?"
  The Master said, "With what then will you recompense kindness?"
  "Recompense injury with justice, and recompense kindness with
kindness."
  The Master said, "Alas! there is no one that knows me."
  Tsze-kung said, "What do you mean by thus saying-that no one knows
you?" The Master replied, "I do not murmur against Heaven. I do not
grumble against men. My studies lie low, and my penetration rises
high. But there is Heaven;-that knows me!"
  The Kung-po Liao, having slandered Tsze-lu to Chi-sun, Tsze-fu
Ching-po informed Confucius of it, saying, "Our master is certainly
being led astray by the Kung-po Liao, but I have still power enough
left to cut Liao off, and expose his corpse in the market and in the
court."
  The Master said, "If my principles are to advance, it is so ordered.
If they are to fall to the ground, it is so ordered. What can the
Kung-po Liao do where such ordering is concerned?"
  The Master said, "Some men of worth retire from the world. Some
retire from particular states. Some retire because of disrespectful
looks. Some retire because of contradictory language."
  The Master said, "Those who have done this are seven men."
  Tsze-lu happening to pass the night in Shih-man, the gatekeeper said
to him, "Whom do you come from?" Tsze-lu said, "From Mr. K'ung." "It
is he,-is it not?"-said the other, "who knows the impracticable nature
of the times and yet will be doing in them."
  The Master was playing, one day, on a musical stone in Weil when a
man carrying a straw basket passed door of the house where Confucius
was, and said, "His heart is full who so beats the musical stone."
  A little while after, he added, "How contemptible is the
one-ideaed obstinacy those sounds display! When one is taken no notice
of, he has simply at once to give over his wish for public employment.
'Deep water must be crossed with the clothes on; shallow water may
be crossed with the clothes held up.'"
  The Master said, "How determined is he in his purpose! But this is
not difficult!"
  Tsze-chang said, "What is meant when the Shu says that Kao-tsung,
while observing the usual imperial mourning, was for three years
without speaking?"
  The Master said, "Why must Kao-tsung be referred to as an example of
this? The ancients all did so. When the sovereign died, the officers
all attended to their several duties, taking instructions from the
prime minister for three years."
  The Master said, "When rulers love to observe the rules of
propriety, the people respond readily to the calls on them for
service."
  Tsze-lu asked what constituted the superior man. The Master said,
"The cultivation of himself in reverential carefulness." "And is
this all?" said Tsze-lu. "He cultivates himself so as to give rest
to others," was the reply. "And is this all?" again asked Tsze-lu. The
Master said, "He cultivates himself so as to give rest to all the
people. He cultivates himself so as to give rest to all the
people:-even Yao and Shun were still solicitous about this."
  Yuan Zang was squatting on his heels, and so waited the approach
of the Master, who said to him, "In youth not humble as befits a
junior; in manhood, doing nothing worthy of being handed down; and
living on to old age:-this is to be a pest." With this he hit him on
the shank with his staff.
  A youth of the village of Ch'ueh was employed by Confucius to
carry the messages between him and his visitors. Some one asked
about him, saying, "I suppose he has made great progress."
  The Master said, "I observe that he is fond of occupying the seat of
a full-grown man; I observe that he walks shoulder to shoulder with
his elders. He is not one who is seeking to make progress in learning.
He wishes quickly to become a man."

                             15

  The Duke Ling of Wei asked Confucius about tactics. Confucius
replied, "I have heard all about sacrificial vessels, but I have not
learned military matters." On this, he took his departure the next
day.
  When he was in Chan, their provisions were exhausted, and his
followers became so in that they were unable to rise.
  Tsze-lu, with evident dissatisfaction, said, "Has the superior man
likewise to endure in this way?" The Master said, "The superior man
may indeed have to endure want, but the mean man, when he is in
want, gives way to unbridled license."
  The Master said, "Ts'ze, you think, I suppose, that I am one who
learns many things and keeps them in memory?"
  Tsze-kung replied, "Yes,-but perhaps it is not so?"
  "No," was the answer; "I seek a unity all pervading."
  The Master said, "Yu I those who know virtue are few."
  The Master said, "May not Shun be instanced as having governed
efficiently without exertion? What did he do? He did nothing but
gravely and reverently occupy his royal seat."
  Tsze-chang asked how a man should conduct himself, so as to be
everywhere appreciated.
  The Master said, "Let his words be sincere and truthful and his
actions honorable and careful;-such conduct may be practiced among the
rude tribes of the South or the North. If his words be not sincere and
truthful and his actions not honorable and carefull will he, with such
conduct, be appreciated, even in his neighborhood?
  "When he is standing, let him see those two things, as it were,
fronting him. When he is in a carriage, let him see them attached to
the yoke. Then may he subsequently carry them into practice."
  Tsze-chang wrote these counsels on the end of his sash.
  The Master said, "Truly straightforward was the historiographer
Yu. When good government prevailed in his state, he was like an arrow.
When bad government prevailed, he was like an arrow. A superior man
indeed is Chu Po-yu! When good government prevails in his state, he is
to be found in office. When bad government prevails, he can roll his
principles up, and keep them in his breast."
  The Master said, "When a man may be spoken with, not to speak to him
is to err in reference to the man. When a man may not be spoken
with, to speak to him is to err in reference to our words. The wise
err neither in regard to their man nor to their words."
  The Master said, "The determined scholar and the man of virtue
will not seek to live at the expense of injuring their virtue. They
will even sacrifice their lives to preserve their virtue complete."
  Tsze-kung asked about the practice of virtue. The Master said,
"The mechanic, who wishes to do his work well, must first sharpen
his tools. When you are living in any state, take service with the
most worthy among its great officers, and make friends of the most
virtuous among its scholars."
  Yen Yuan asked how the government of a country should be
administered.
  The Master said, "Follow the seasons of Hsia.
  "Ride in the state carriage of Yin.
  "Wear the ceremonial cap of Chau.
  "Let the music be the Shao with its pantomimes. Banish the songs
of Chang, and keep far from specious talkers. The songs of Chang are
licentious; specious talkers are dangerous."
  The Master said, "If a man take no thought about what is distant, he
will find sorrow near at hand."
  The Master said, "It is all over! I have not seen one who loves
virtue as he loves beauty."
  The Master said, "Was not Tsang Wan like one who had stolen his
situation? He knew the virtue and the talents of Hui of Liu-hsia,
and yet did not procure that he should stand with him in court."
  The Master said, "He who requires much from himself and little
from others, will keep himself from being the object of resentment."
  The Master said, "When a man is not in the habit of saying-'What
shall I think of this? What shall I think of this?' I can indeed do
nothing with him!"
  The Master said, "When a number of people are together, for a
whole day, without their conversation turning on righteousness, and
when they are fond of carrying out the suggestions of a small
shrewdness;-theirs is indeed a hard case."
  The Master said, "The superior man in everything considers
righteousness to be essential. He performs it according to the rules
of propriety. He brings it forth in humility. He completes it with
sincerity. This is indeed a superior man."
  The Master said, "The superior man is distressed by his want of
ability. He is not distressed by men's not knowing him."
  The Master said, "The superior man dislikes the thought of his
name not being mentioned after his death."
  The Master said, "What the superior man seeks, is in himself. What
the mean man seeks, is in others."
  The Master said, "The superior man is dignified, but does not
wrangle. He is sociable, but not a partisan."
  The Master said, "The superior man does not promote a man simply
on account of his words, nor does he put aside good words because of
the man."
  Tsze-kung asked, saying, "Is there one word which may serve as a
rule of practice for all one's life?" The Master said, "Is not
RECIPROCITY such a word? What you do not want done to yourself, do not
do to others."
  The Master said, "In my dealings with men, whose evil do I blame,
whose goodness do I praise, beyond what is proper? If I do sometimes
exceed in praise, there must be ground for it in my examination of the
individual.
  "This people supplied the ground why the three dynasties pursued the
path of straightforwardness."
  The Master said, "Even in my early days, a historiographer would
leave a blank in his text, and he who had a horse would lend him to
another to ride. Now, alas! there are no such things."
  The Master said, "Specious words confound virtue. Want of
forbearance in small matters confounds great plans."
  The Master said, "When the multitude hate a man, it is necessary
to examine into the case. When the multitude like a man, it is
necessary to examine into the case."
  The Master said, "A man can enlarge the principles which he follows;
those principles do not enlarge the man."
  The Master said, "To have faults and not to reform them,-this,
indeed, should be pronounced having faults."
  The Master said, "I have been the whole day without eating, and
the whole night without sleeping:-occupied with thinking. It was of no
use. better plan is to learn."
  The Master said, "The object of the superior man is truth. Food is
not his object. There is plowing;-even in that there is sometimes
want. So with learning;-emolument may be found in it. The superior man
is anxious lest he should not get truth; he is not anxious lest
poverty should come upon him."
  The Master said, "When a man's knowledge is sufficient to attain,
and his virtue is not sufficient to enable him to hold, whatever he
may have gained, he will lose again.
  "When his knowledge is sufficient to attain, and he has virtue
enough to hold fast, if he cannot govern with dignity, the people will
not respect him.
  "When his knowledge is sufficient to attain, and he has virtue
enough to hold fast; when he governs also with dignity, yet if he
try to move the people contrary to the rules of propriety:-full
excellence is not reached."
  The Master said, "The superior man cannot be known in little
matters; but he may be intrusted with great concerns. The small man
may not be intrusted with great concerns, but he may be known in
little matters."
  The Master said, "Virtue is more to man than either water or fire. I
have seen men die from treading on water and fire, but I have never
seen a man die from treading the course of virtue."
  The Master said, "Let every man consider virtue as what devolves
on himself. He may not yield the performance of it even to his
teacher."
  The Master said, "The superior man is correctly firm, and not firm
merely."
  The Master said, "A minister, in serving his prince, reverently
discharges his duties, and makes his emolument a secondary
consideration."
  The Master said, "In teaching there should be no distinction of
classes."
  The Master said, "Those whose courses are different cannot lay plans
for one another."
  The Master said, "In language it is simply required that it convey
the meaning."
  The music master, Mien, having called upon him, when they came to
the steps, the Master said, "Here are the steps." When they came to
the mat for the guest to sit upon, he said, "Here is the mat." When
all were seated, the Master informed him, saying, "So and so is
here; so and so is here."
  The music master, Mien, having gone out, Tsze-chang asked, saying.
"Is it the rule to tell those things to the music master?"
  The Master said, "Yes. This is certainly the rule for those who lead
the blind."

                             16

  The head of the Chi family was going to attack Chwan-yu.
  Zan Yu and Chi-lu had an interview with Confucius, and said, "Our
chief, Chil is going to commence operations against Chwan-yu."
  Confucius said, "Ch'iu, is it not you who are in fault here?
  "Now, in regard to Chwan-yu, long ago, a former king appointed its
ruler to preside over the sacrifices to the eastern Mang; moreover, it
is in the midst of the territory of our state; and its ruler is a
minister in direct connection with the sovereign: What has your
chief to do with attacking it?"
  Zan Yu said, "Our master wishes the thing; neither of us two
ministers wishes it."
  Confucius said, "Ch'iu, there are the words of Chau Zan, -'When he
can put forth his ability, he takes his place in the ranks of
office; when he finds himself unable to do so, he retires from it. How
can he be used as a guide to a blind man, who does not support him
when tottering, nor raise him up when fallen?'
  "And further, you speak wrongly. When a tiger or rhinoceros
escapes from his cage; when a tortoise or piece of jade is injured
in its repository:-whose is the fault?"
  Zan Yu said, "But at present, Chwan-yu is strong and near to Pi;
if our chief do not now take it, it will hereafter be a sorrow to
his descendants."
  Confucius said. "Ch'iu, the superior man hates those declining to
say-'I want such and such a thing,' and framing explanations for their
conduct.
  "I have heard that rulers of states and chiefs of families are not
troubled lest their people should be few, but are troubled lest they
should not keep their several places; that they are not troubled
with fears of poverty, but are troubled with fears of a want of
contented repose among the people in their several places. For when
the people keep their several places, there will be no poverty; when
harmony prevails, there will be no scarcity of people; and when
there is such a contented repose, there will be no rebellious
upsettings.
  "So it is.-Therefore, if remoter people are not submissive, all
the influences of civil culture and virtue are to be cultivated to
attract them to be so; and when they have been so attracted, they must
be made contented and tranquil.
  "Now, here are you, Yu and Ch'iu, assisting your chief. Remoter
people are not submissive, and, with your help, he cannot attract them
to him. In his own territory there are divisions and downfalls,
leavings and separations, and, with your help, he cannot preserve it.
  "And yet he is planning these hostile movements within the
state.-I am afraid that the sorrow of the Chi-sun family will not be
on account of Chwan-yu, but will be found within the screen of their
own court."
  Confucius said, "When good government prevails in the empire,
ceremonies, music, and punitive military expeditions proceed from
the son of Heaven. When bad government prevails in the empire,
ceremonies, music, and punitive military expeditions proceed from
the princes. When these things proceed from the princes, as a rule,
the cases will be few in which they do not lose their power in ten
generations. When they proceed from the great officers of the princes,
as a rule, the case will be few in which they do not lose their
power in five generations. When the subsidiary ministers of the
great officers hold in their grasp the orders of the state, as a
rule the cases will be few in which they do not lose their power in
three generations.
  "When right principles prevail in the kingdom, government will not
be in the hands of the great officers.
  "When right principles prevail in the kingdom, there will be no
discussions among the common people."
  Confucius said, "The revenue of the state has left the ducal house
now for five generations. The government has been in the hands of
the great officers for four generations. On this account, the
descendants of the three Hwan are much reduced."
  Confucius said, "There are three friendships which are advantageous,
and three which are injurious. Friendship with the uplight; friendship
with the sincere; and friendship with the man of much
observation:-these are advantageous. Friendship with the man of
specious airs; friendship with the insinuatingly soft; and
friendship with the glib-tongued:-these are injurious."
  Confucius said, "There are three things men find enjoyment in
which are advantageous, and three things they find enjoyment in
which are injurious. To find enjoyment in the discriminating study
of ceremonies and music; to find enjoyment in speaking of the goodness
of others; to find enjoyment in having many worthy friends:-these
are advantageous. To find enjoyment in extravagant pleasures; to
find enjoyment in idleness and sauntering; to find enjoyment in the
pleasures of feasting:-these are injurious."
  Confucius said, "There are three errors to which they who stand in
the presence of a man of virtue and station are liable. They may speak
when it does not come to them to speak;-this is called rashness.
They may not speak when it comes to them to speak;-this is called
concealment. They may speak without looking at the countenance of
their superior;-this is called blindness."
  Confucius said, "There are three things which the superior man
guards against. In youth, when the physical powers are not yet
settled, he guards against lust. When he is strong and the physical
powers are full of vigor, he guards against quarrelsomeness. When he
is old, and the animal powers are decayed, he guards against
covetousness."
  Confucius said, "There are three things of which the superior man
stands in awe. He stands in awe of the ordinances of Heaven. He stands
in awe of great men. He stands in awe of the words of sages.
  "The mean man does not know the ordinances of Heaven, and
consequently does not stand in awe of them. He is disrespectful to
great men. He makes sport of the words of sages."
  Confucius said, "Those who are born with the possession of knowledge
are the highest class of men. Those who learn, and so readily get
possession of knowledge, are the next. Those who are dull and
stupid, and yet compass the learning, are another class next to these.
As to those who are dull and stupid and yet do not learn;-they are the
lowest of the people."
  Confucius said, "The superior man has nine things which are subjects
with him of thoughtful consideration. In regard to the use of his
eyes, he is anxious to see clearly. In regard to the use of his
ears, he is anxious to hear distinctly. In regard to his
countenance, he is anxious that it should be benign. In regard to
his demeanor, he is anxious that it should be respectful. In regard to
his speech, he is anxious that it should be sincere. In regard to
his doing of business, he is anxious that it should be reverently
careful. In regard to what he doubts about, he is anxious to
question others. When he is angry, he thinks of the difficulties his
anger may involve him in. When he sees gain to be got, he thinks of
righteousness."
  Confucius said, "Contemplating good, and pursuing it, as if they
could not reach it; contemplating evil! and shrinking from it, as they
would from thrusting the hand into boiling water:-I have seen such
men, as I have heard such words.
  "Living in retirement to study their aims, and practicing
righteousness to carry out their principles:-I have heard these words,
but I have not seen such men."
  The Duke Ching of Ch'i had a thousand teams, each of four horses,
but on the day of his death, the people did not praise him for a
single virtue. Po-i and Shu-ch'i died of hunger at the foot of the
Shau-yang mountains, and the people, down to the present time,
praise them.
  "Is not that saying illustrated by this?"
  Ch'an K'ang asked Po-yu, saying, "Have you heard any lessons from
your father different from what we have all heard?"
  Po-yu replied, "No. He was standing alone once, when I passed
below the hall with hasty steps, and said to me, 'Have you learned the
Odes?' On my replying 'Not yet,' he added, If you do not learn the
Odes, you will not be fit to converse with.' I retired and studied the
Odes.
  "Another day, he was in the same way standing alone, when I passed
by below the hall with hasty steps, and said to me, 'Have you
learned the rules of Propriety?' On my replying 'Not yet,' he added,
'If you do not learn the rules of Propriety, your character cannot
be established.' I then retired, and learned the rules of Propriety.
  "I have heard only these two things from him."
  Ch'ang K'ang retired, and, quite delighted, said, "I asked one
thing, and I have got three things. I have heard about the Odes. I
have heard about the rules of Propriety. I have also heard that the
superior man maintains a distant reserve towards his son."
  The wife of the prince of a state is called by him Fu Zan. She calls
herself Hsiao T'ung. The people of the state call her Chun Fu Zan,
and, to the people of other states, they call her K'wa Hsiao Chun. The
people of other states also call her Chun Fu Zan.
                             17

  Yang Ho wished to see Confucius, but Confucius would not go to see
him. On this, he sent a present of a pig to Confucius, who, having
chosen a time when Ho was not at home went to pay his respects for the
gift. He met him, however, on the way.
  Ho said to Confucius, "Come, let me speak with you." He then
asked, "Can he be called benevolent who keeps his jewel in his
bosom, and leaves his country to confusion?" Confucius replied,
"No." "Can he be called wise, who is anxious to be engaged in public
employment, and yet is constantly losing the opportunity of being so?"
Confucius again said, "No." "The days and months are passing away; the
years do not wait for us." Confucius said, "Right; I will go into
office."
  The Master said, "By nature, men are nearly alike; by practice, they
get to be wide apart."
  The Master said, "There are only the wise of the highest class,
and the stupid of the lowest class, who cannot be changed."
  The Master, having come to Wu-ch'ang, heard there the sound of
stringed instruments and singing.
  Well pleased and smiling, he said, "Why use an ox knife to kill a
fowl?"
  Tsze-yu replied, "Formerly, Master, I heard you say,-'When the man
of high station is well instructed, he loves men; when the man of
low station is well instructed, he is easily ruled.'"
  The Master said, "My disciples, Yen's words are right. What I said
was only in sport."
  Kung-shan Fu-zao, when he was holding Pi, and in an attitude of
rebellion, invited the Master to visit him, who was rather inclined to
go.
  Tsze-lu was displeased. and said, "Indeed, you cannot go! Why must
you think of going to see Kung-shan?"
  The Master said, "Can it be without some reason that he has
invited ME? If any one employ me, may I not make an eastern Chau?"
  Tsze-chang asked Confucius about perfect virtue. Confucius said, "To
be able to practice five things everywhere under heaven constitutes
perfect virtue." He begged to ask what they were, and was told,
"Gravity, generosity of soul, sincerity, earnestness, and kindness. If
you are grave, you will not be treated with disrespect. If you are
generous, you will win all. If you are sincere, people will repose
trust in you. If you are earnest, you will accomplish much. If you are
kind, this will enable you to employ the services of others.
  Pi Hsi inviting him to visit him, the Master was inclined to go.
  Tsze-lu said, "Master, formerly I have heard you say, 'When a man in
his own person is guilty of doing evil, a superior man will not
associate with him.' Pi Hsi is in rebellion, holding possession of
Chung-mau; if you go to him, what shall be said?"
  The Master said, "Yes, I did use these words. But is it not said,
that, if a thing be really hard, it may be ground without being made
thin? Is it not said, that, if a thing be really white, it may be
steeped in a dark fluid without being made black?
  "Am I a bitter gourd? How can I be hung up out of the way of being
eaten?"
  The Master said, "Yu, have you heard the six words to which are
attached six becloudings?" Yu replied, "I have not."
  "Sit down, and I will tell them to you.
  "There is the love of being benevolent without the love of
learning;-the beclouding here leads to a foolish simplicity. There
is the love of knowing without the love of learning;-the beclouding
here leads to dissipation of mind. There is the love of being
sincere without the love of learning;-the beclouding here leads to
an injurious disregard of consequences. There is the love of
straightforwardness without the love of learning;-the beclouding
here leads to rudeness. There is the love of boldness without the love
of learning;-the beclouding here leads to insubordination. There is
the love of firmness without the love of learning;-the beclouding here
leads to extravagant conduct."
  The Master said, "My children, why do you not study the Book of
Poetry?
  "The Odes serve to stimulate the mind.
  "They may be used for purposes of self-contemplation.
  "They teach the art of sociability.
  "They show how to regulate feelings of resentment.
  "From them you learn the more immediate duty of serving one's
father, and the remoter one of serving one's prince.
  "From them we become largely acquainted with the names of birds,
beasts, and plants."
  The Master said to Po-yu, "Do you give yourself to the Chau-nan
and the Shao-nan. The man who has not studied the Chau-nan and the
Shao-nan is like one who stands with his face right against a wall. Is
he not so?"
 The Master said, "'It is according to the rules of propriety,' they
say.-'It is according to the rules of propriety,' they say. Are gems
and silk all that is meant by propriety? 'It is music,' they
say.-'It is music,' they say. Are hers and drums all that is meant
by music?"
  The Master said, "He who puts on an appearance of stern firmness,
while inwardly he is weak, is like one of the small, mean people;-yea,
is he not like the thief who breaks through, or climbs over, a wall?"
  The Master said, "Your good, careful people of the villages are
the thieves of virtue."
  The Master said, To tell, as we go along, what we have heard on
the way, is to cast away our virtue."
  The Master said, "There are those mean creatures! How impossible
it is along with them to serve one's prince!
  "While they have not got their aims, their anxiety is how to get
them. When they have got them, their anxiety is lest they should
lose them.
  "When they are anxious lest such things should be lost, there is
nothing to which they will not proceed."
  The Master said, "Anciently, men had three failings, which now
perhaps are not to be found.
  "The high-mindedness of antiquity showed itself in a disregard of
small things; the high-mindedness of the present day shows itself in
wild license. The stern dignity of antiquity showed itself in grave
reserve; the stern dignity of the present day shows itself in
quarrelsome perverseness. The stupidity of antiquity showed itself
in straightforwardness; the stupidity of the present day shows
itself in sheer deceit."
  The Master said, "Fine words and an insinuating appearance are
seldom associated with virtue."
  The Master said, "I hate the manner in which purple takes away the
luster of vermilion. I hate the way in which the songs of Chang
confound the music of the Ya. I hate those who with their sharp mouths
overthrow kingdoms and families."
  The Master said, "I would prefer not speaking."
  Tsze-kung said, "If you, Master, do not speak, what shall we, your
disciples, have to record?"
  The Master said, "Does Heaven speak? The four seasons pursue their
courses, and all things are continually being produced, but does
Heaven say anything?"
  Zu Pei wished to see Confucius, but Confucius declined, on the
ground of being sick, to see him. When the bearer of this message went
out at the door, the Master took his lute and sang to it, in order
that Pei might hear him.
  Tsai Wo asked about the three years' mourning for parents, saying
that one year was long enough.
  "If the superior man," said he, "abstains for three years from the
observances of propriety, those observances will be quite lost. If for
three years he abstains from music, music will be ruined. Within a
year the old grain is exhausted, and the new grain has sprung up, and,
in procuring fire by friction, we go through all the changes of wood
for that purpose. After a complete year, the mourning may stop."
  The Master said, "If you were, after a year, to eat good rice, and
wear embroidered clothes, would you feel at ease?" "I should," replied
Wo.
  The Master said, "If you can feel at ease, do it. But a superior
man, during the whole period of mourning, does not enjoy pleasant food
which he may eat, nor derive pleasure from music which he may hear. He
also does not feel at ease, if he is comfortably lodged. Therefore
he does not do what you propose. But now you feel at ease and may do
it."
  Tsai Wo then went out, and the Master said, "This shows Yu's want of
virtue. It is not till a child is three years old that it is allowed
to leave the arms of its parents. And the three years' mourning is
universally observed throughout the empire. Did Yu enjoy the three
years' love of his parents?"
  The Master said, "Hard is it to deal with who will stuff himself
with food the whole day, without applying his mind to anything good!
Are there not gamesters and chess players? To be one of these would
still be better than doing nothing at all."
  Tsze-lu said, "Does the superior man esteem valor?" The Master said,
"The superior man holds righteousness to be of highest importance. A
man in a superior situation, having valor without righteousness,
will be guilty of insubordination; one of the lower people having
valor without righteousness, will commit robbery."
  Tsze-kung said, "Has the superior man his hatreds also?" The
Master said, "He has his hatreds. He hates those who proclaim the evil
of others. He hates the man who, being in a low station, slanders
his superiors. He hates those who have valor merely, and are
unobservant of propriety. He hates those who are forward and
determined, and, at the same time, of contracted understanding."
  The Master then inquired, "Ts'ze, have you also your hatreds?"
Tsze-kung replied, "I hate those who pry out matters, and ascribe
the knowledge to their wisdom. I hate those who are only not modest,
and think that they are valorous. I hate those who make known secrets,
and think that they are straightforward."
  The Master said, "Of all people, girls and servants are the most
difficult to behave to. If you are familiar with them, they lose their
humility. If you maintain a reserve towards them, they are
discontented."
  The Master said, "When a man at forty is the object of dislike, he
will always continue what he is."

                             18

  The Viscount of Wei withdrew from the court. The Viscount of Chi
became a slave to Chau. Pi-kan remonstrated with him and died.
  Confucius said, "The Yin dynasty possessed these three men of
virtue."
  Hui of Liu-hsia, being chief criminal judge, was thrice dismissed
from his office. Some one said to him, "Is it not yet time for you,
sir, to leave this?" He replied, "Serving men in an upright way, where
shall I go to, and not experience such a thrice-repeated dismissal? If
I choose to serve men in a crooked way, what necessity is there for me
to leave the country of my parents?"
  The duke Ching of Ch'i, with reference to the manner in which he
should treat Confucius, said, "I cannot treat him as I would the chief
of the Chi family. I will treat him in a manner between that
accorded to the chief of the Chil and that given to the chief of the
Mang family." He also said, "I am old; I cannot use his doctrines."
Confucius took his departure.
  The people of Ch'i sent to Lu a present of female musicians, which
Chi Hwan received, and for three days no court was held. Confucius
took his departure.
  The madman of Ch'u, Chieh-yu, passed by Confucius, singing and
saying, "O FANG! O FANG! How is your virtue degenerated! As to the
past, reproof is useless; but the future may still be provided
against. Give up your vain pursuit. Give up your vain pursuit. Peril
awaits those who now engage in affairs of government."
  Confucius alighted and wished to converse with him, but Chieh-yu
hastened away, so that he could not talk with him.
  Ch'ang-tsu and Chieh-ni were at work in the field together, when
Confucius passed by them, and sent Tsze-lu to inquire for the ford.
  Ch'ang-tsu said, "Who is he that holds the reins in the carriage
there?" Tsze-lu told him, "It is K'ung Ch'iu.', "Is it not K'ung of
Lu?" asked he. "Yes," was the reply, to which the other rejoined,
"He knows the ford."
  Tsze-lu then inquired of Chieh-ni, who said to him, "Who are you,
sir?" He answered, "I am Chung Yu." "Are you not the disciple of K'ung
Ch'iu of Lu?" asked the other. "I am," replied he, and then Chieh-ni
said to him, "Disorder, like a swelling flood, spreads over the
whole empire, and who is he that will change its state for you? Rather
than follow one who merely withdraws from this one and that one, had
you not better follow those who have withdrawn from the world
altogether?" With this he fell to covering up the seed, and
proceeded with his work, without stopping.
  Tsze-lu went and reported their remarks, when the Master observed
with a sigh, "It is impossible to associate with birds and beasts,
as if they were the same with us. If I associate not with these
people,-with mankind,-with whom shall I associate? If right principles
prevailed through the empire, there would be no use for me to change
its state."
  Tsze-lu, following the Master, happened to fall behind, when he
met an old man, carrying across his shoulder on a staff a basket for
weeds. Tsze-lu said to him, "Have you seen my master, sir?" The old
man replied, "Your four limbs are unaccustomed to toil; you cannot
distinguish the five kinds of grain:-who is your master?" With this,
he planted his staff in the ground, and proceeded to weed.
  Tsze-lu joined his hands across his breast, and stood before him.
  The old man kept Tsze-lu to pass the night in his house, killed a
fowl, prepared millet, and feasted him. He also introduced to him
his two sons.
  Next day, Tsze-lu went on his way, and reported his adventure. The
Master said, "He is a recluse," and sent Tsze-lu back to see him
again, but when he got to the place, the old man was gone.
  Tsze-lu then said to the family, "Not to take office is not
righteous. If the relations between old and young may not be
neglected, how is it that he sets aside the duties that should be
observed between sovereign and minister? Wishing to maintain his
personal purity, he allows that great relation to come to confusion. A
superior man takes office, and performs the righteous duties belonging
to it. As to the failure of right principles to make progress, he is
aware of that."
  The men who have retired to privacy from the world have been Po-i,
Shu-ch'i, Yuchung, I-yi, Chu-chang, Hui of Liu-hsia, and Shao-lien.
  The Master said, "Refusing to surrender their wills, or to submit to
any taint in their persons; such, I think, were Po-i and Shu-ch'i.
  "It may be said of Hui of Liu-hsia! and of Shaolien, that they
surrendered their wills, and submitted to taint in their persons,
but their words corresponded with reason, and their actions were
such as men are anxious to see. This is all that is to be remarked
in them.
  "It may be said of Yu-chung and I-yi, that, while they hid
themselves in their seclusion, they gave a license to their words; but
in their persons, they succeeded in preserving their purity, and, in
their retirement, they acted according to the exigency of the times.
  "I am different from all these. I have no course for which I am
predetermined, and no course against which I am predetermined."
  The grand music master, Chih, went to Ch'i.
  Kan, the master of the band at the second meal, went to Ch'u.
Liao, the band master at the third meal, went to Ts'ai. Chueh, the
band master at the fourth meal, went to Ch'in.
  Fang-shu, the drum master, withdrew to the north of the river.
  Wu, the master of the hand drum, withdrew to the Han.
  Yang, the assistant music master, and Hsiang, master of the
musical stone, withdrew to an island in the sea.
  The duke of Chau addressed his son, the duke of Lu, saying, "The
virtuous prince does not neglect his relations. He does not cause
the great ministers to repine at his not employing them. Without
some great cause, he does not dismiss from their offices the members
of old families. He does not seek in one man talents for every
employment."
  To Chau belonged the eight officers, Po-ta, Po-kwo, Chung-tu,
Chung-hwu, Shu-ya, Shuhsia, Chi-sui, and Chi-kwa.

                             19

  Tsze-chang said, "The scholar, trained for public duty, seeing
threatening danger, is prepared to sacrifice his life. When the
opportunity of gain is presented to him, he thinks of righteousness.
In sacrificing, his thoughts are reverential. In mourning, his
thoughts are about the grief which he should feel. Such a man commands
our approbation indeed
  Tsze-chang said, "When a man holds fast to virtue, but without
seeking to enlarge it, and believes in right principles, but without
firm sincerity, what account can be made of his existence or
non-existence?"
  The disciples of Tsze-hsia asked Tsze-chang about the principles
that should characterize mutual intercourse. Tsze-chang asked, "What
does Tsze-hsia say on the subject?" They replied, "Tsze-hsia says:
'Associate with those who can advantage you. Put away from you those
who cannot do so.'" Tsze-chang observed, "This is different from
what I have learned. The superior man honors the talented and
virtuous, and bears with all. He praises the good, and pities the
incompetent. Am I possessed of great talents and virtue?-who is
there among men whom I will not bear with? Am I devoid of talents
and virtue?-men will put me away from them. What have we to do with
the putting away of others?"
  Tsze-hsia said, "Even in inferior studies and employments there is
something worth being looked at; but if it be attempted to carry
them out to what is remote, there is a danger of their proving
inapplicable. Therefore, the superior man does not practice them."
  Tsze-hsia said, "He, who from day to day recognizes what he has
not yet, and from month to month does not forget what he has
attained to, may be said indeed to love to learn."
  Tsze-hsia said, "There are learning extensively, and having a firm
and sincere aim; inquiring with earnestness, and reflecting with
self-application:-virtue is in such a course."
  Tsze-hsia said, "Mechanics have their shops to dwell in, in order to
accomplish their works. The superior man learns, in order to reach
to the utmost of his principles."
  Tsze-hsia said, "The mean man is sure to gloss his faults."
  Tsze-hsia said, "The superior man undergoes three changes. Looked at
from a distance, he appears stern; when approached, he is mild; when
he is heard to speak, his language is firm and decided."
  Tsze-hsia said, "The superior man, having obtained their confidence,
may then impose labors on his people. If he have not gained their
confidence, they will think that he is oppressing them. Having
obtained the confidence of his prince, one may then remonstrate with
him. If he have not gained his confidence, the prince will think
that he is vilifying him."
  Tsze-hsia said, "When a person does not transgress the boundary line
in the great virtues, he may pass and repass it in the small virtues."
  Tsze-yu said, "The disciples and followers of Tsze-hsia, in
sprinkling and sweeping the ground, in answering and replying, in
advancing and receding, are sufficiently accomplished. But these are
only the branches of learning, and they are left ignorant of what is
essential.-How can they be acknowledged as sufficiently taught?"
  Tsze-hsia heard of the remark and said, "Alas! Yen Yu is wrong.
According to the way of the superior man in teaching, what departments
are there which he considers of prime importance, and delivers? what
are there which he considers of secondary importance, and allows
himself to be idle about? But as in the case of plants, which are
assorted according to their classes, so he deals with his disciples.
How can the way of a superior man be such as to make fools of any of
them? Is it not the sage alone, who can unite in one the beginning and
the consummation of learning?"
  Tsze-hsia said, "The officer, having discharged all his duties,
should devote his leisure to learning. The student, having completed
his learning, should apply himself to be an officer."
  Tsze-hsia said, "Mourning, having been carried to the utmost
degree of grief, should stop with that."
  Tsze-hsia said, "My friend Chang can do things which are hard to
be done, but yet he is not perfectly virtuous."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "How imposing is the manner of Chang! It
is difficult along with him to practice virtue."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "I heard this from our Master: 'Men
may not have shown what is in them to the full extent, and yet they
will be found to do so, on the occasion of mourning for their
parents."
  The philosopher Tsang said, "I have heard this from our Master:-'The
filial piety of Mang Chwang, in other matters, was what other men
are competent to, but, as seen in his not changing the ministers of
his father, nor his father's mode of government, it is difficult to be
attained to.'"
  The chief of the Mang family having appointed Yang Fu to be chief
criminal judge, the latter consulted the philosopher Tsang. Tsang
said, "The rulers have failed in their duties, and the people
consequently have been disorganized for a long time. When you have
found out the truth of any accusation, be grieved for and pity them,
and do not feel joy at your own ability."
  Tsze-kung said, "Chau's wickedness was not so great as that name
implies. Therefore, the superior man hates to dwell in a low-lying
situation, where all the evil of the world will flow in upon him."
  Tsze-kung said, "The faults of the superior man are like the
eclipses of the sun and moon. He has his faults, and all men see them;
he changes again, and all men look up to him."
  Kung-sun Ch'ao of Wei asked Tszekung, saying. "From whom did
Chung-ni get his learning?"
  Tsze-kung replied, "The doctrines of Wan and Wu have not yet
fallen to the ground. They are to be found among men. Men of talents
and virtue remember the greater principles of them, and others, not
possessing such talents and virtue, remember the smaller. Thus, all
possess the doctrines of Wan and Wu. Where could our Master go that he
should not have an opportunity of learning them? And yet what
necessity was there for his having a regular master?"
  Shu-sun Wu-shu observed to the great officers in the court,
saying, "Tsze-kung is superior to Chung-ni."
  Tsze-fu Ching-po reported the observation to Tsze-kung, who said,
"Let me use the comparison of a house and its encompassing wall. My
wall only reaches to the shoulders. One may peep over it, and see
whatever is valuable in the apartments.
  "The wall of my Master is several fathoms high. If one do not find
the door and enter by it, he cannot see the ancestral temple with
its beauties, nor all the officers in their rich array.
  "But I may assume that they are few who find the door. Was not the
observation of the chief only what might have been expected?"
  Shu-sun Wu-shu having spoken revilingly of Chung-ni, Tsze-kung said,
"It is of no use doing so. Chung-ni cannot be reviled. The talents and
virtue of other men are hillocks and mounds which may be stepped over.
Chung-ni is the sun or moon, which it is not possible to step over.
Although a man may wish to cut himself off from the sage, what harm
can he do to the sun or moon? He only shows that he does not know
his own capacity.
  Ch'an Tsze-ch' in, addressing Tsze-kung, said, "You are too
modest. How can Chung-ni be said to be superior to you?"
  Tsze-kung said to him, "For one word a man is often deemed to be
wise, and for one word he is often deemed to be foolish. We ought to
be careful indeed in what we say.
  "Our Master cannot be attained to, just in the same way as the
heavens cannot be gone up by the steps of a stair.
  "Were our Master in the position of the ruler of a state or the
chief of a family, we should find verified the description which has
been given of a sage's rule:-he would plant the people, and
forthwith they would be established; he would lead them on, and
forthwith they would follow him; he would make them happy, and
forthwith multitudes would resort to his dominions; he would stimulate
them, and forthwith they would be harmonious. While he lived, he would
be glorious. When he died, he would be bitterly lamented. How is it
possible for him to be attained to?"

                             20

  Yao said, "Oh! you, Shun, the Heaven-determined order of
succession now rests in your person. Sincerely hold fast the due Mean.
If there shall be distress and want within the four seas, the Heavenly
revenue will come to a perpetual end."
  Shun also used the same language in giving charge to Yu.
  T'ang said, "I the child Li, presume to use a dark-colored victim,
and presume to announce to Thee, O most great and sovereign God,
that the sinner I dare not pardon, and thy ministers, O God, I do
not keep in obscurity. The examination of them is by thy mind, O
God. If, in my person, I commit offenses, they are not to be
attributed to you, the people of the myriad regions. If you in the
myriad regions commit offenses, these offenses must rest on my
person."
  Chau conferred great gifts, and the good were enriched.
  "Although he has his near relatives, they are not equal to my
virtuous men. The people are throwing blame upon me, the One man."
  He carefully attended to the weights and measures, examined the body
of the laws, restored the discarded officers, and the good
government of the kingdom took its course.
  He revived states that had been extinguished, restored families
whose line of succession had been broken, and called to office those
who had retired into obscurity, so that throughout the kingdom the
hearts of the people turned towards him.
  What he attached chief importance to were the food of the people,
the duties of mourning, and sacrifices.
  By his generosity, he won all. By his sincerity, he made the
people repose trust in him. By his earnest activity, his
achievements were great. By his justice, all were delighted.
  Tsze-chang asked Confucius, saying, "In what way should a person
in authority act in order that he may conduct government properly?"
The Master replied, "Let him honor the five excellent, and banish away
the four bad, things;-then may he conduct government properly."
Tsze-chang said, "What are meant by the five excellent things?" The
Master said, "When the person in authority is beneficent without great
expenditure; when he lays tasks on the people without their
repining; when he pursues what he desires without being covetous; when
he maintains a dignified ease without being proud; when he is majestic
without being fierce."
  Tsze-chang said, "What is meant by being beneficent without great
expenditure?" The Master replied, "When the person in authority
makes more beneficial to the people the things from which they
naturally derive benefit;-is not this being beneficent without great
expenditure? When he chooses the labors which are proper, and makes
them labor on them, who will repine? When his desires are set on
benevolent government, and he secures it, who will accuse him of
covetousness? Whether he has to do with many people or few, or with
things great or small, he does not dare to indicate any disrespect;-is
not this to maintain a dignified ease without any pride? He adjusts
his clothes and cap, and throws a dignity into his looks, so that,
thus dignified, he is looked at with awe;-is not this to be majestic
without being fierce?"
  Tsze-chang then asked, "What are meant by the four bad things?"
The Master said, "To put the people to death without having instructed
them;-this is called cruelty. To require from them, suddenly, the full
tale of work, without having given them warning;-this is called
oppression. To issue orders as if without urgency, at first, and, when
the time comes, to insist on them with severity;-this is called
injury. And, generally, in the giving pay or rewards to men, to do
it in a stingy way;-this is called acting the part of a mere
official."
  The Master said, "Without recognizing the ordinances of Heaven, it
is impossible to be a superior man.
  "Without an acquaintance with the rules of Propriety, it is
impossible for the character to be established.
  "Without knowing the force of words, it is impossible to know men."
                            THE END
